1 nature portfolio  |  reporting summaryApril 2023
Corresponding author(s):
Basudev Maity, Mitsuo Shoji, Eriko Nango, 
Takafumi Ueno
Last updated by author(s): Jun 1, 2024
Reporting Summary
Nature Portfolio wishes to improve the reproducibility of the work that we publish. This form provides structure for consistency and transparency 
in reporting. For further information on Nature Portfolio policies, see our Editorial Policies and the Editorial Policy Checklist.
Statistics
For all statistical analyses, confirm that the following items are present in the figure legend, table legend, main text, or Methods section.
n/a Confirmed
The exact sample size (n) for each experimental group/condition, given as a discrete number and unit of measurement
A statement on whether measurements were taken from distinct samples or whether the same sample was measured repeatedly
The statistical test(s) used AND whether they are one- or two-sided 
Only common tests should be described solely by name; describe more complex techniques in the Methods section.
A description of all covariates tested
A description of any assumptions or corrections, such as tests of normality and adjustment for multiple comparisons
A full description of the statistical parameters including central tendency (e.g. means) or other basic estimates (e.g. regression coefficient) 
AND variation (e.g. standard deviation) or associated estimates of uncertainty (e.g. confidence intervals)
For null hypothesis testing, the test statistic (e.g. F, t, r) with confidence intervals, effect sizes, degrees of freedom and P value noted 
Give P values as exact values whenever suitable.
For Bayesian analysis, information on the choice of priors and Markov chain Monte Carlo settings
For hierarchical and complex designs, identification of the appropriate level for tests and full reporting of outcomes
Estimates of effect sizes (e.g. Cohen's d, Pearson's r), indicating how they were calculated
Our web collection on statistics for biologists contains articles on many of the points above.
Software and code
Policy information about availability of computer code
Data collection MPCCD-phase III detector
Data analysis cheetah, crystFEL; Phenix; COOT; Microsoft excel; Pymol; NWChem 6.8 program package; Gaussian, VMD program
For manuscripts utilizing custom algorithms or software that are central to the research but not yet described in published literature, software must be made available to editors and 
reviewers. We strongly encourage code deposition in a community repository (e.g. GitHub). See the Nature Portfolio guidelines for submitting code & software for further information.
Data
Policy information about availability of data
All manuscripts must include a data availability statement. This statement should provide the following information, where applicable: 
- Accession codes, unique identifiers, or web links for publicly available datasets 
- A description of any restrictions on data availability 
- For clinical datasets or third party data, please ensure that the statement adheres to our policy 
 
All the data described in the paper are presented either in the main text or with supporting information. Atomic models and map coefficients were deposited to the 
Protein Data Bank (PDB ID: 8WZF, 8WZG, 8WZR, 8WZT AND 8WZV). Raw diffraction images of all the structures used in this paper were deposited to CXIDB ID 221.

2 nature portfolio  |  reporting summaryApril 2023
Research involving human participants, their data, or biological material
Policy information about studies with human participants or human data. See also policy information about sex, gender (identity/presentation), 
and sexual orientation and race, ethnicity and racism.
Reporting on sex and gender not applicable
Reporting on race, ethnicity, or 
other socially relevant 
groupings
not applicable
Population characteristics not applicable
Recruitment not applicable
Ethics oversight not applicable
Note that full information on the approval of the study protocol must also be provided in the manuscript.
Field-specific reporting
Please select the one below that is the best fit for your research. If you are not sure, read the appropriate sections before making your selection.
Life sciences Behavioural & social sciences  Ecological, evolutionary & environmental sciences
For a reference copy of the document with all sections, see nature.com/documents/nr-reporting-summary-flat.pdf
Life sciences study design
All studies must disclose on these points even when the disclosure is negative.
Sample size not applicable
Data exclusions not applicable
Replication not applicable
Randomization not applicable
Blinding not applicable
Reporting for specific materials, systems and methods
We require information from authors about some types of materials, experimental systems and methods used in many studies. Here, indicate whether each material, 
system or method listed is relevant to your study. If you are not sure if a list item applies to your research, read the appropriate section before selecting a response. 
Materials & experimental systems
n/a Involved in the study
Antibodies
Eukaryotic cell lines
Palaeontology and archaeology
Animals and other organisms
Clinical data
Dual use research of concern
Plants
Methods
n/a Involved in the study
ChIP-seq
Flow cytometry
MRI-based neuroimaging

3 nature portfolio  |  reporting summaryApril 2023
Novel plant genotypes not applicable
Seed stocks not applicable
Authentication not applicable
Plants