Journal of Rescarch of the National Burwau of Standards
Volume 90, Number 2, March-April 1985
Standards for Measurement
of the Critical Fields of Superconductors
F. R. Fickett
National Bureau of Standards, Boulder, CO 80303
Accepted: November 21, 1984
The origins, definitions, and measurement of the various critical magnetic fields associated with super-
conductors are reviewed. The potential need for a consensus standard for the measurement of these fields is
evaluated. Measurement techniques as practiced both in industry and in the national laboratories and extrapo-
lation techniques commonly used to determine the upper critical fields of the newer materials are presented.
Sources of error in the experimental determination of critical fields are assessed for the various common
techniques. A comprehensive bibliography of the modern literature on critical field measurement and inter-
pretation is included.
Key words: critical field; critical parameters; magnetic field; standards; superconductors.
1. Introduction
The literature of the field of superconductivity is re-
plete with numerous critical magnetic fields. Several
(He, Hcl, Hc2) have universal application and acceptance,
while many others are defined for subtle and specific
purposes [e.g., Bgn(O)]. Our goal is to evaluate whether
there is a need for a measurement standard for critical
field similar to one developed recently for critical cur-
rent [1].' We consider only superconductive materials
that are either commercial items now or those that have
the potential of being so in the foreseeable future. This
criterion might seem to allow us to ignore many of the
more difficult aspects of the problem, such as the effect
of surface superconductivity. Yet, our survey of the
literature indicates that frequently these effects do ap-
pear in rather mundane measurements and can alter the
results significantly. Thus, we have included most of the
effects that have been observed to date during attempts
About the Author, Paper: F. R. Fickett is a physicist
with the NBS Electromagnetic Technology Division
in Boulder, CO. His work was supported by the De-
partment of Energy through the Office of Fusion
Energy and the Division of High Energy Physics.
to determine the critical fields. However, for practical
purposes, effects that take place below a critical current
value of about 10 4 A/cm2 are seldom of interest, which
removes us from the more esoteric regions of the J-H
and T-H curves. There are, of course, exceptions such as
pinning studies. Similarly, the more exotic materials,
such as the Chevrel-phase conductors, are not of imme-
diate practical importance. However, that situation
could easily change. Thus, although our concentration
is on the conductors that are commercially available,
these new materials with great potential are also consid-
ered.
The terminology used here for the general references
to the field of superconductivity is that presented in the
several review documents on terminology prepared by
our group [2,33 and in the new ASTM standard for
superconductor terminology [4]. Definitions of the vari-
ous critical fields are given both in the discussion of the
theory and of the extrapolation techniques.
In the recent past, the differentiation of B and H was
a matter left to those who worried about the basic phys-
ics of magnetism. Use of the cgs system was entirely
acceptable and magnetism and superconductivity did
not coexist. Under these conditions, the gauss and the
oersted were effectively equivalent and, in fact, were
often used interchangeably. At present, however, SI
units are rapidly gaining acceptance and more is being
written regarding the relationships of magnetism and
95
'Numbers in brackets refer to literature references.


superconductivity [5nj Both situacions require that we
use more care in the application of these terms. The
reader interested in the basics of magnetism is referred
to our recent publication on magnetic effects at low
temperatures [61. Table I lists definitions and unit con-
veis-rons for magnetic quantities.
The determining equation (in SI) is:
B = 9(H + jW ), {(1)
where B is the magnetic flux density (or magnetic in-
Table 1. Units for magnetic properties.
Gaussian & cgs emu' Conversi,
Factor, C'
Dion St & rationalized mks'
Magnetic flux density,
magnetic induction B gauss (G) tesla (T), Wb/m
mO xwf 2 .Uzl, G cm veber (Wb'i, volt second (¶/s)
Magnetic field strength,
magnetizing force
(Volume) magnetizations
(Volume) magnetization
Magnetic polarization,
intensity of magnetization
(Mass) magnetization
H
M
J, I. M
o-, A
oersted (Oe)'
emu/cm"h
G
ernulerml
emufg
10'/4v
10'
4wX/407
417X ¶0"
4sr1 0
ampere per meter (A/mYl
A/m
A/m
T, Wb/m
Am/kg
Wbnm/kg
(Volume) sascepLtbi.ity X, r dimersion less, cur ,' 47
(4n)I X 10
dimeas or.less
henry per meter (H/m), Wb/(A.m)
(Moss) susceptibility XPs. cmd/g, emu/g 4 wX 10"' mJAg
(4r)2X lI0-I Hm3/kg
(Mtolar) susceptibility cm /mol, emu/Mal
Magnetic moment
Magnetic dipole moment
Permeability
Re cal wie pe amtiabilI ly'
(Volume) energy density,
energy product
Demagnetization factor
emu, erg/Gm
emu, erg/G
dimensioniess
Am2, joule per tesla (J/T)
4rX 10< °
4wrX 10-7
not deined
H' U
D. A'
erg/cm'
dimensionless 1/4,,r
Wb.nm
H/m
dimensioaless
J/m3
dimensionless
'Gaussian units and cgs eu are tlhe same for uasgnetic propercies. The defining relation ih ?=NY+4wM.
bMultiply a number in Gussianb units by C io convert it to SI (e.g., I Gx 0-3Tri -4i ri
51 (S terhc in rcntcf 'Ig Vairert h.. been adopted by the National Bureau of Standards. Where two conversion factors arc giveh, the upper one is recogsizetd
under. or consistent with, SI a.l d is based on the defnition B =y,,(H+-f). where lu=4wX 10`H/Hm. The lower one is not recognized under SI and is based on
the defusition B s=ja,+J. where the symbol /.r Mis often used in place of J.
ganuss= 133 gamma (y).
Dfinerosionally, oersted=gauss.
JA/m was often expressed as "aorpere-lwrn per metetr when used for magnetic field strcngtnh
tugne~c nimoment per Iri vcltino.
hthe designartnt. 'emun is aot a ua-t.
tRecognized under SI, even thougn based on the difnttion B = uoH +J. See foomnote..
F,=lItFs= l-ix, all in SI. !, is equal to Gcatsians p
R. IB. Goldfarb and F. R. Fickel. National Bureau of Standards, Boulder, CO 80303, July 1984
96
Property Symbol
Mwagnetk flux cI
4 wX 10'
(4zrX 10-"
m3/mol
H m3/mol
I


duction) in teslas, H is the magnetic field strength in
amperes/meter, M is the (volume) magnetization in
amperes/meter, and Mo is the permeability of free space
(47rX io-' henrys/meter). The important distinction
here is that H is an applied field, M is a property of the
material and, thus, B is a mixed quantity. Because of this
distinction, we suggest that the proper quantity for the
critical fields discussed here is H; it is the applied field
value at which the transition occurs. This choice leads
to the unfortunate side effect which has plagued us for
years-few researchers have an innate feel for the units
of amperes/meter. This, in turn, leads to the common fix
used by many authors of multiplying the number by Mo
and then using the units of teslas, which are more famil-
iar. As an aside: the correct abbreviation for the tesla is
T and the correct plural name is teslas (not capitalized)
17].
Another subject that sometimes leads to confusion in
the realm of magnetic measurements is the de-
magnetization factor, N. In magnetizable bodies, the
poles that appear under the influence of the applied field
give a return field through the body that has the effect
of lowering the actual value of H within the material.
This is a geometric effect and is discussed in detail in our
publication [6]. It is of concern with superconductors
only as long as they are in the perfect Meissner state
below Hc,, a region that is seldom of practical interest.
However, in this region the effect is important and must
be accounted for either in the data processing or by
choice of a sample geometry that minimizes the effect (a
long ellipsoid with its long axis parallel to the applied
field).
At first glance, the importance of critical field in prac-
tical applications is not obvious. Certainly high values
are desired for applications in very high field magnets,
but only if reasonable critical currents can also be
achieved. However, the upper critical field and its be-
havior as a function of temperature and critical current
are topics of major importance to the theoretical under-
standing of type II superconductivity, which in turn will
almost certainly lead to better materials for the future. A
prime example of this is the effort now afoot to create a
higher critical field in NbTi alloys by third element
additions [8]. The work is crucially dependent on accu-
rate determination of the critical fields. Another exam-
ple is the application of critical field values in the treat-
ment of scaling of strain effects in high field
superconductors.
In the remainder of this paper we will discuss how the
various critical fields arise in theory and how they are
related to other parameters. The techniques used for the
determination of the fields are reviewed with discussion
of the accuracy, precision, and experimental difficulties
involved. Since high critical fields are most often deter-
mined by extrapolation rather than direct measurement,
some time is spent discussing the various extrapolation
schemes and their merits and problems, including con-
troversies that have arisen related to the measurement
and interpretation of modern data. The final section
presents our conclusions and suggestions for how best to
apply the concept of standards to this measurement
problem.
2. Theory and Definitions
The theoretical background for the various defini-
tions associated with critical magnetic fields is ade-
quately covered in many texts on superconductivity.
Cody [9] provides a particularly complete listing of the
equations. Here we present just enough theory to allow
us to define the terms that are essential to understanding
the problems involved with the determination of critical
fields. Where we have an option we will choose the
simplest workable definition and leave the subtle details
to the theorists. All the terms arise in one way or an-
other from the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) or
Ginzburg-Landau-Abrikosov-Gorkov (GLAG) the-
ories. Application of these concepts to the theory of
practical materials, such as the multifilamentary super-
conductors; is an active area of research at the present
time [10-12].
Type I superconductors are included here for com-
pleteness, but are nearly totally neglected thereafter,
since our concern is with the high-field type II materials.
2.1 Basic Behavior
Here we present the basics of type I and type II super-
conductivity. The complications that arise in the various
limits are discussed in section 2.2. To start, we define
five parameters:
Penetration depth, X. This characteristic length is a
measure of the depth of flux penetration into a super-
conductor. The currents which prevent flux penetration
into the interior of the material flow in a layer of this
thickness. The exact temperature dependence of this
parameter is open to debate, but it decreases mono-
tonically with increasing temperature and rapidly drops
to zero near the critical temperature. Typical measured
values at 4 K for NbTi and Nb,Sn are hundreds of
nanometers, but with a large spread. For elemental su-
perconductors, X is tens of nanometers.
Coherence length, g. This length is a measure of the
typical size of the Cooper pairs. Looked at differently, it
can be taken as the minimum thickness of the interface
between superconducting and normal regions. Specifics
depend on the particular theoretical treatment. The
97


GLAG coherence length is temperature dependent, be-
ing inversely proportional to the temperature difference
from the critical value. In impure materials, the coher-
ence length value is also influenced by the electron
mean free path. Typical values are around 5 nm for type
II superconductors and considerably larger for type I
(Al - 1600 nm, Pb -83 nm).
Ginzburg-Landau parameter, K. This is the dimen-
sionless ratio of the two parameters above.
K = V/t. (2)
This picture is valid for either type of superconductor at
this point, i.e., below the first critical field value. The
behavior of various parameters for each of the two types
is shown in figure 2.
Type I superconductors. These materials are pure
metals and the critical field transition is first order. The
coherence length is larger than the penetration depth,
and a mixed state (see below) is energetically un-
Type I Type UI
It is roughly temperature independent. K is used as the
parameter that distinguishes between type I and type II
superconductors; those with a value < 1/V/2 are type I.
Flux quantum, 40. The fundamental unit of mag-
netic flux.
*o=h/2e=2.068X 10-'5 Wb. (3)
Normal state resistivity, Pn The classical electrical re-
sistivity as measured just above the superconducting
transition unless stated otherwise.
The general behavior of a superconductor in a field is
shown in figure 1. The shape is chosen to minimize
demagnetization effects. The conductor is in the Meiss-
ner state with B =0 in the bulk of the material. The
superconductor distorts the field lines in its vicinity.
Figure 1-Superconductor behavior in the Meissner state showing the
effect of the penetration depth [2].
W
0
I.-
LB
cowJ
M
(ax
-J
0
12
0,
X
d
-J
ILl
U.
a
uJU
-I
TEMPERATURE, T
W
U;
I-
0
Li
A:
co
z
UJ
a
X
IL
2
N
I-
0
C I "C2
APPLIED FIELD, H
I
0
-J
w
a.
C-
TEMPERATURE, T
Figure 2-The parameters most often used in the determination of
critical field and how they vary with field for both type I and type
II superconductors.
98
MC
APPLIED FIELD, H
"ci "C 2
APPLIED FIELD, H
/ MI.d Sit.t
/ I ?11"


favorable. Thus, at H. the superconducting state col-
lapses entirely. The critical field is temperature de-
pendent, with an approximately parabolic dependence
on TIT,. Below the critical field the flux density is zero
in the bulk and the magnetic susceptibility (G/H) is -I
(SI units), i.e., the material is perfectly diamagnetic. The
resistive transition is sharp for these materials, suf-
ficiently so that some are used as temperature standards.
Type Ii superconductors. These are the materials of
primary commercial interest. All of the high field super-
conductors are a subgroup of this type. The materials
tend to be alloys and compounds. They also have a
region of perfect diamagnetism that extends only up to
a rather small lower critical field, H.,, at which a second
order transition to the mixed state occurs. The behavior
of the related properties is shown on the right side of
figure 2. The fact that the penetration depth is greater
than the coherence length gives rise to a negative sur-
face energy between the superconducting and normal
regions and the mixed state becomes energetically fa-
vorable at a relatively low field (H,1). The structure of
this state is as shown in figure 3. It starts when quantized
flux bundles, usually of magnitude 4r,, penetrate the inte-
rior of the material. The flux is concentrated in the
normal core which is surrounded by circulating super-
currents and, in the limit of zero applied field, it decays
to zero in a distance from the core equal to the pene-
tration depth. The density of superconducting electron
pairs, which is zero in the core, reaches its equilibrium
value in a distance approximately equal to the coherence
length. With increasing applied field, the number of
these flux vortices increases and they form a triangular
array, the flux lattice, with an equilibrium separation
that varies as B -t. At the upper critical field, ,C2, the
flux lattice vanishes and bulk superconductivity is de-
stroyed. The effect of this scenario on the bulk proper-
ties can be seen in figure 2, The resistance (measured
with sufficiently low current) does not show the trans-
formation until H.2 because continuous superconducting
paths still exist through the material up to this point.
However, the amount of current that can be carried, the
critical current density, decreases rapidly as the upper
critical field is approached, as shown by the data in
figure 4. HJ2 is temperature dependent, and the slope of
II g
2
w
cc
c-)
-J
C-)
O
P
1
0.1
/Nrmnal Core
cScreening
Currents
- Srpe r C rndd ¶in g
Material
TDP VIEW
SIDE VIEW
Figure 3-Flux penetration in the mixed state of type II super-
conductors &howintg the vortex structure and the flux lattice (131.
0.001 L
0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6
CRITICAL FIELD iCoHc 2 . T
Figure 4-Variation of the critical current near the upper critical field.
Data from [14].
the curve near T. is an important parameter in the de-
tailed theory of these materials. For some materials,
very high values of H,2 may occur as shown in figure 5;
it has been said that critical field values on the order of
a 100 T are not ruled out by existing theory [1I].
There are two classes of superconductors in this cate-
gory, intrinsic and impurity dominated. In theory almost
any superconductor can be put into the latter category
by the introduction of impurities or disorder to raise the
normal state resistivity. Huhm and Matthias [12] suggest
as an approximate criterion for intrinsic super-
conductors that the critical temperature should exceed
99
ooooo00
000 U00
0000000000000


I-04
00
C-Jw
-J
Sc
EI-
0cc
Ma
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
5 10 15 20
TEMPERATURE, K
Figure 5-Behavior of critical field with temperature for several mod-
ern superconductors.
8 K. The relationship between the critical field and crit-
ical temperature of the two types is quite different. For
the intrinsic materials
Surface critical field, H, 3. Above H, 2 a material may
still carry a small supercurrent in a surface layer of
thickness approximately equal to the coherence length.
This occurs in situations that are usually not encoun-
tered in the measurement of practical materials, such as
when the field is parallel to a free conductor surface. It
is not seen if the field is perpendicular to the sample nor
if the sample surface is in intimate contact with normal
conductor. The surface current persists with increasing
field up to the surface critical field. H.3 is related to H,,
by
H. 3 = alc2, (6)
where a is about 1.7. Figures 6 and 7 show the effect on
the magnetization and the field-temperature plots. If the
requisite conditions are met, the effect can cause serious
errors in critical field determinations, especially if the
measurement is made by a resistive technique.
Magnetic, spin, and scattering effects. Many effects
work to alter the simple picture of the origin of the
upper critical field presented above. Foremost among
these is the paramagnetism of the normal state, but con-
tributions also arise from the paramagnetism of the su-
perconducting state, spin-orbit scattering effects, and
electron-phonon coupling. Because of this, the full
GLAG theory expression for the upper critical field for
high values of K,
(7)
defines a critical field that is higher than that usually
(4) measured. Normal state paramagnetism causes the
where y is the electronic specific heat coefficient (pro-
portional to the density of states). The impurity domi-
nated materials give
H. 2 - p.y T,. (5)
Thus it is possible (with some assumptions) to separate
the two classes of materials by plotting H12 against yT,.
2.2 Complications
In addition to the rather straightforward consid-
erations above, the type II materials have other, more
complex, aspects to their behavior. The theoretical basis
of most of these is presented here, again, in just enough
detail to describe the effect. The interested reader
should consult the pertinent references. Explanation of
these effects requires the introduction of new critical
fields. These fields are usually not directly measurable.
HC1 HC 2 HC3
APPLIED FIELD, H
Figure 6-Magnetization curve for a type II material showing the ex-
tension to H,,.
100
H, 2 x (YT,)2 ,
La H,*,(0)=3.llXl0'p yT, (teslas),


X
U-
a
a-a-
Tc
TEMPERATURE, T
Figure 7-Applied field as a function of temperature for a type II
superconductor showing the region of sheath conduction below
If, 3,
actual value to be lower. It is possible to calculate this
paramagnetically limited transition field with the result,
po H,(0) = 1.84 T, (teslas). (8)
ning force (defined as Jc B) on applied field:
F,=JcB=oHc`2(T) f(h), (12)
where h is the ratio of the applied field to the upper
critical field and n is an empirical constant that varies
from - 1.5 to 2.5. The function f(h) that describes the
shape of the pinning curve is most often seen in the form
hP(I -h) 9 with the parameters p and q dependent on the
specific materials.
Strain sensitivity. Practical superconducting materi-
als, especially the intermetallics, are usually sensitive to
strain. Their critical current and field are degraded by
either compressive or tensile strain. Typical behavior of
the measured critical field is shown in figure 8. The
horizontal axis is labeled intrinsic strain, illustrating an
important point from the aspect of measurement; the
superconducting material in a commercial wire may al-
ready be under strain (usually compressive) because of
forces exerted by the stabilizer and other components of
the composite. Thus, measurement of H.2 on these prac-
tical materials becomes more of a problem than one
might first imagine and leads to the definition of even
more terminology. Most of this work comes under the
heading of strain scaling studies and several empirical
"laws" have emerged [19,20] to describe the behavior.
These scaling laws have the exact form of eq (12), but
the temperature dependence of H, 2 is replaced by a
strain dependence. Their application requires correct
determination of the critical field even though, in gen-
eral, they do not apply in either the low field (<0.2 H,2)
or the high field (>0.9 HC 2) regions. Two new defini-
Another symbol for this field that is sometimes used is
HpP2 (0). Further modifications to the theory to account
for paramagnetic effects lead to another critical field,
H ''@)=H .2 (0) (I+ a3)
where a is the Maki parameter given by
a= V2 [H *,(0)/Hp(0)]
1-J
w
(9) L-
-(
(10) er
C.)
which later theoretical development has shown to be
a=2.35 ypn=0.5 33 [-dMJf, 2 /dT]JT=Tc (11)
Flux pinning. This property determines the critical
current of the high field materials, a high value of Jc
requires that the fluxoid lattice be held in place. Near the
upper critical field the value of J, is strongly affected by
field. The formulation originally proposed by Fietz and
Webb [16] with further development by Kramer [17] is
most often used to express the dependence of the pin-
1.0
0.9
w
!-
-J
Ui]
0.8'--0.6% 0 0.6%
INTRINSIC STRAIN
Figure 8-The effect of strain on the determination of the critical field.
Data from (181.
101


tions appear in these writings: H, 20, which designates the
"as received" value of H,2 for a practical material and
H,,2 ,,, which gives the maximum value of H, 2 under
strain; the peak of the curve in figure 8. This value is
assumed to be that of the strain-free state of the super-
conductor. Since one is dealing with practical materials
here, it should be pointed out that they do not often have
a uniform composition or microstructure and H.2 may
well vary throughout the material. Thus, a sufficiently
high measurement current is used so that a "bulk" value
will be obtained (see the discussion of extrapolation
techniques below) and this fact is often brought to the
attention of the reader by use of H,*,(e) as the critical
field designation (e is the strain parameter).
3. Measurement and Data
Analysis Techniques
Here we are concerned with measurement of the up-
per critical field, H,,, although the techniques described
could be applicable to the determination of other fields
as well. The correct measurement of critical field, es-
pecially in practical superconductors, presents a diffi-
cult task both experimentally and in the interpretation of
the resulting data. Different measurement methods may
give different values for a given sample, and even the
same method may give varying results depending on the
choice of parameters, such as measuring current, used in
a resistive determination. The cause of these variations is
not an error in the concept or the measurement, but is
most often due to material effects such as in-
homogeneities in the superconductor. Thus, it some-
times happens that the measurement result that is most
correct physically is not the most meaningful in a prac-
tical sense. Critical field determination, unlike the mea-
surement of other superconductor parameters, suffers
from the additional problem that one can seldom actu-
Superconducting
Figure 9-Techniques for deter- R
miuing critical field values from
resistance and magnetization
data plots [3]. SA .
ally achieve the fields necessary to see the transition
directly and, thus, extrapolation techniques must be
used which, themselves, are subjected to interpretation.
The literature on upper critical field measurements is
mixed with regard to the care given in presenting the
details of the experiment and the data analysis methods.
Two authors have discussed aspects of the measurement
problem in detail [21,22]. Many of their ideas and obser-
vations have been incorporated into the following sec-
tions.
3.1 Defining the Transition
Transitions between the superconducting and normal
states are seldom as clean as the curves of figure 2 sug-
gest. At best, the transitions have a width to them and at
worst they are nearly lost in the noise. The techniques
most commonly employed involve extrapolations of
parts of curves as shown in figure 9. In practice, a more
elaborate system is used as illustrated in figure 10, in
which the "center" of the transition is taken as the mid-
point between two points that may represent 25 and
75%, as in the figure, or some other choice such as
10-90%. This approach is helpful because the early parts
of the transition may be obscured by noise and because
of the unsymmetrical nature of the curve, but it is an
arbitrary definition. In fact, it has been suggested that,
for the resistive determination of critical field in prac-
tical materials, this technique is misleading, and the
proper value should be taken as that at which the transi-
tion first appears with increasing field at a properly
chosen current density [21]. This arrangement is used to
avoid the problem of H,2 variations throughout the su-
perconducting material of the sample as discussed be-
low. The author presents data showing that a significant
difference in H.2 value is found by the two techniques
applied to commercial-type conductors. A similar com-
parison using single crystal Cu-Mo-S [23] found differ-
Superconducting
I
M
Normal
State
,.
Normal
Slate
HOc
H H
102


Extranolated R..nrnni
1.00 r ..............
& l'INHOMOGENEOUS
0.75 - ---------------------------------- ''- - SUPERCONDUCTORS
ef Superconducting , Normal
State State Figure 10-Illustration of method of
0.50 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~determining the critical parame-0.50 ------------------------------------ - ter value in the case of a broad
1/ - jMyz transition [13).
0.25 .............-.... . .
_ / PURE SUPERCONDUCTORS
T/Tc
ences of up to 20% between measurements using the T
two definitions.
A further problem can arise in the situation often
encountered where one does not want to allow the sam-
ple to enter the normal state because of the possibility of 80
damage. The approach in this case is to choose an arbi- XX0
trary criterion of detected voltage over a fixed length of 0
the wire as defining the critical parameter. This tech- Nb 3 Sn
nique was chosen for the ASTM standard for critical =
current measurement [1]. The reasoning behind the H
choice and some of the related problems are discussed in 60 _
an earlier publication [24]. The effect of the specific o
choice of criterion on the measured critical current is
shown in figure 11; clearly a 1 gV criterion results in a
significantly lower critical current value than a 100 IjV 0 -
criterion. As discussed in the reference, a low criterion Li 40_
is not always desirable in practical application because it A
may not be possible to measure it unambiguously. On <
the other hand, a very high one may put one too close to 1 /
quenching the sample. 21
o 20-
/ ~10 
O /1~~10
Figure 11-The effect of choice of criterion on the value reported for 0 100 200
the critical current of a practical conductor. Numbers on the curves
give the actual full-scale voltage in microvolts that corresponds to
100% on the vertical axis. CURRENT, A
103


Because of its significance in understanding in-
homogeneity effects, the width of the transition is an
important feature of the data. All commercial materials
show relatively broad transitions as indicated by the
measurements shown in figure 12, especially those for
the Nb3 Sn samples. The interpretation is always
strongly dependent on the measurement technique.
3,2 Measurement Techniques
A wide variety of measurement techniques has been
used for the detection of the upper critical field of super-
conductors. The choice among them depends on the
Tc of Nb3 Sn
Commercial
Wire NBS
Reference
Sample
80
t
TC=16.9 K
goal of the measurement and the time (and money)
available. As always, the easiest measurements are the
most difficult to interpret and the most subject to
error-another manifestation of Murphy's Law. The
techniques that have been used generally fall into five
classes: electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal,
and acoustic. For each of these we will discuss the the-
ory behind the measurement, the ease of use, problems
with the technique, and the data interpretation required.
The apparatus for each method will be touched on
briefly in the next section. We do not go into great detail
here because a new book on materials properties mea-
surement at low temperatures which thoroughly covers
Tc=1 8 .00 K
16.0 17.0 18.0
TEMPERATURE, K
8.5 9.0 9.5
TEMPERATURE, K
a,-
140 cU
_
120 n
100 >-
Z-
80 <
0
X
I-
Figure 12-Comparisons between
commercial materials and refer-
ence samples measured by
several techniques [25].
104
t)
Z.
L..
0
IL
w
C,)
0)
..


each of the techniques, although not always their spe-
cific application to superconductors, has recently be-
come available [26].
In the discussion that follows, one should keep in
mind the fact that practical superconductors are in-
homogeneous materials. The critical field of the super-
conductor may vary with the relative direction of the
applied field and the conduction path. Isolated regions
of superconducting material may occur, or regions may
be coupled only through a percolation network or by
the proximity effect. Normal conductor, usually copper,
is almost always present, with a resistivity that is a factor
of 100 or more below its room temperature value. Each
of these factors will affect a given measurement method
differently. The ideal measurement method would allow
us to determine the microscopic variation of H,2
throughout the material, to measure the exact volume
fraction of each superconducting species in the com-
posite, and to determine the connectivity of the various
regions. Thts would, of course, be accomplished with
apparatus of minimum cost and greatest ease of oper-
ation. We may have to wait some time for this.
Resistive method. This measurement is by far the
easiest to perform on commercial materials and it is the
most commonly used. Care should be taken to have a
long enough piece of wire that the minimum detectable
voltage represents a reasonably low electric field crite-
rion. Current transfer and current sharing effects can be
minimized by having the voltage-measuring contacts on
a significant length of the sample that is in a region of
uniform field and distant from the current contacts by
many wire diameters. This technique is probably the
only common one that can reasonably be used in pulsed-
field systems for the direct measurement of very high
critical fields [27]. The values of Hc measured at low
current levels can be high because the voltage will re-
main at zero with only a few strands still super-
conducting. In a few unusual situations (field parallel to
surface, no normal metal jacket), it is also possible for
surface superconductivity effects to cause the transition
to be observed at very high field values. Even when
surface effects are not of concern, the choice of mea-
suring current is not a trivial problem. Larbalestier [21]
presents data showing the value of H
1
c2 for cold-worked
NbTi to vary from more than 11.6 T to less than 10.9 T
as the measuring current density is raised from 0.005 to
10 A/cm 2 , and the curve is not leveling out even then.
MVagnetic methods. A number of techniques use de-
tection of the change in magnetization of a sample as a
means of monitoring the critical field transition. Early
methods are described by Hein and Falge [28] and more
recent ones in the book mentioned above [26]. At Ha
both the magnetization and the susceptibility become
effectively zero. Magnetometer techniques measure the
magnetization of the sample directly. The sample is in-
serted into a pickup coil in the field region. The field is
set to a fixed value and the sample is moved either out of
the coil completely (ballistic method) or caused to oscil-
late within the coil (vibrating sample). The voltage in-
duced in the coil is integrated to give the magnetization.
A variation of this system is found in the swept-field
technique in which the sample remains fixed within the
pickup coil and the magnetic field is ramped at a fixed
rate. Use of a balanced coil system (see below) allows
extraction of the magnetization signal.
The various inductive techniques all use sus-
ceptometers; they measure the incremental sus-
ceptibility (AM/AH) by applying a small low-frequency
ac field to the sample in the presence of a large back-
ground dc field and detecting the induced signal, either
with a secondary coil (mutual inductance) or by the
change in inductance of the primary (self inductance).
The mutual inductance method is the most commonly
used, and most often the secondary coil system is made
up of two counterwound coils that are connected in
series with the sample contained in one of them. This
arrangement allows canceling of the primary field signal
with the sample in the normal state prior to a mea-
surement. Such systems are said to be balanced.
All of the systems just described require calibration if
they are to be used for direct measurements rather than
for tracking the sample through a transition. The easiest
method uses a properly shaped test specimen of type I
superconductor, such as lead, and assumes it is perfectly
diamagnetic at 4 K. Room temperature standards of
susceptibility and magnetic moment are also available
from the National Bureau of Standards. Magnetic meth-
ods are seldom actually used to determine H,2 of prac-
tical materials, but they are used extensively in the deter-
mination of ac losses in superconductors. They are
useful for samples of bulk material and for chips or
powders. When used with wires, the samples are either
bundles of cut wires with their axes parallel to the ap-
plied field or noninductively-wound coils in which the
wire axis is normal to the field. Again, the in-
homogeneous nature of practical superconducting ma-
terials can give problems in magnetic measurements.
The most common occurs in superconductors where a
high-.H, phase precipitates at the grain boundaries of
lower critical field material. The magnetic techniques
see this layer, and the resulting signal is indistinguishable
from that which would be seen if the entire grain were
actually in the superconducting state. In the "normal"
situation of simply inhomogeneous superconductors,
the inductive signal will tend to have a broader spread
than the resistive one and, in general, will give a lower
105


critical field value for a given material. Also, the mag-
netization change, AM; tends to be very small for high-
H., materials.
Specific heat. Measurement of the variation of the
specific heat as a function of temperature through the
superconducting transition is generally considered to be
the best experimental method for characterizing super-
conducting materials of all sorts. It is the only one that
can potentially indicate the amount of superconducting
material present and, at least in concept, indicate the
presence of superconductors with different transition
temperatures or fields. However, it requires a relatively
complex experimental apparatus for accurate mea-
surements. Its use in the measurement of critical fields is
further complicated by the effect of the field on the
thermometry and the lengthy measurement times, but it
has been used successfully for measurements on Nb3 Sn
in an 18 T field [29]. The temperature variation of the
specific heat for an idealized superconductor is shown in
figure 13. An excellent review of the theory and experi-
ment with specific applications to superconductors is
given by Stewart [30] and a general treatment of specific
heat at low temperatures by Sparks [26]. Briefly, the
discontinuity at the critical temperature arises from the
different contributions to the specific heat made by nor-
mal and superconducting electrons. The lattice con-
tribution is small at these temperatures; it varies as T'
and is unaffected by the transition. The electronic con-
tribution, on the other hand, is linear in Tin the normal
state and takes an exponential form in the super-
conducting state with the exponent given by -A/kT,
where A is the energy gap associated with the super-
conducting state. Furthermore, BCS theory gives the
result
Me
e-,
LU
0-
U,~
06
0
T/Tc
Figure 13-FBehavior of the specific heat with temperature through a
superconducting-to-normal transition [3].
ae-AATc/yT0 =2.43 (13)
for the ratio of the specific heats of the superconducting
and normal states at T0 in zero field. This allows one to
estimate the amount of the sample that is super-
conducting, although the exact number may not hold
true for some of the more exotic materials [30]. Further-
more, if data can be taken to well below the transition
temperature, a much more accurate determination of the
normal component of the sample can be made. Because
of the temperature dependences just described, the only
component of significance well below the transition is
the yT term of the normal material. The ratio of this
term to the value of yT above the transition is then a
direct measure of the fraction of the sample that is not
superconducting.
Other methods. The three techniques just mentioned
are the only ones in common use for critical field deter-
mination. However, a few other methods have been
used on occasion. Foner and colleagues [31,32] describe
an rf (5 to 20 MHz) technique, useful for measuring H,2
in powdered or odd-shaped samples, in which losses in
an induced rf current are measured with a bridge ar-
rangement. The technique is said to effectively monitor
only the superconducting regions of the sample so that,
in concept, it would allow determination of multiple
critical field values of materials within a composite. The
first of the papers also makes reference to a microwave
technique.
The use of ultrasonics for critical field determination
is discussed by Neuringer and Shapira [33]. The paper
presents an in-depth analysis of the theory and experi-
mental data showing the rapid increase in the attenu-
ation of a 10 MHz signal on field-induced transition to
the normal state in a NbZr alloy.
Comparisons. A few experiments have compared
the critical temperature (not critical field) of a single
sample as determined by several of the methods outlined
above. They have (wisely) used samples of either pure
type I material [34], carefully prepared niobium [25, see
fig. 12], or single-phase alloys [33]. In all cases quite
good agreement was obtained between measurements
by all of the techniques, indicating that, in general, lack
of agreement among different techniques applied to
complex materials is due to the inhomogeneous nature
of the composite rather than problems with technique.
In fact, differences between the inductive and resistive
methods have been used recently to investigate crack
formation in the reaction layer of a Nb3Sn multi-
filamentary composite [35].
106


3.3 Apparatus
The specific apparatus required for the measurement
of critical field by any of the techniques discussed here
are adequately described in the references. General low
temperature experimental methods are the subject of
numerous texts (see [26] and references therein). Here
we mention only two apparatus topics that are specific
to critical field measurements, sample configuration and
high-field magnet systems. For ease of discussion we
assume that the sample is a wire and we use the resistive
technique as our model, although the comments should
usually apply to any other arrangement.
The measurement of critical parameters requires that
the sample be mounted in such a manner that it will be
as strain-free as possible after cooldown, but which as-
sures that it will not be able to move under the effect of
the applied field and current, while still maintaining
good thermal contact with the bath. Figure 14 shows
the most common sample mounting schemes. Each has
its own pros and cons which have been discussed in
detail elsewhere [24]. A particularly difficult problem
has to do with the transfer of current in and out of the
filaments in response to proximity to current contacts
and to changes in field magnitude or orientation. Care
must be taken that the measurement region is one in
Short Straight
Hairpin
Coil
Long Straight
Figure 14-Commonly used configuration for samples for the mea-
surement of critical parameters by the resistive method.
which the current has attained a stable distribution. If
the measurement involves sweeping a field, one should
be aware that current transfer among filaments will be
occurring during the sweep.
Magnet systems that attain fields much in excess of
10 T are not generally available. This makes direct mea-
surement of the critical field of the more interesting
materials at low current densities impossible. Thus, most
laboratories use approaches that involve the extrapo-
lation techniques discussed below. In the larger labora-
tories, steady fields of 12 T are available in reasonable
volumes using superconducting magnets and fields to
20 T with normal magnets. Hybrid superconducting-
normal systems exist that reach fields as high as 30 T.
Beyond that is the region attainable only with pulsed
magnet techniques. These magnets allow one to achieve
fields in the 50 T range for very short periods of time
(tens of ms) and the rapid field changes introduce a
whole new set of problems into the measurement.
3.4 Sources of Error
It is possible to do a detailed error analysis for each of
the critical field measurement methods described. How-
ever, it will nearly always show that the measurement
itself can easily be made with an accuracy near 5% and
somewhat better precision (near 2%) if care is taken in
the determination of the magnetic field and its uni-
formity and in the suppression of electronic noise. This
level of accuracy is usually quite adequate for most pur-
poses outside of the basic research laboratory. The real
problem is the uncertainty in the critical field due to
stress and nonuniformity of material in the sample and
the effect of choices of criterion and measuring current
or other experimental parameters on the final result, be
it H.2 or the transition width. Reasonable care in the
preparation, characterization, and mounting of the sam-
ples is called for here. In pulsed field techniques care
must be taken to prevent inductive heating of the mate-
rial. Other rise-time effects appear to be negligible in the
pulsed measurements [27]. In the more conventional
measurements, slowly sweeping field or temperature
seems to introduce no errors. At least it has been shown
that the value and width of the transition is essentially
the same whether one holds temperature fixed and
sweeps the field or vice versa [36].
3.5 Extrapolation Methods
The value of the critical field for modern super-
conducting materials at the temperatures of interest is
usually very high and, thus, unattainable in most labora-
tories. Several extrapolation methods are commonly
used to allow determination of H,2 at 0 or 4 K from other
data on the critical parameters. The two common meth-
107


ods are the use of data on the variation of H42 with T
near the critical temperature. where H, is relatively
low, and extrapolation using pinning theory of the crit-
ical current-versus-field behavior. Each of these meth-
ods depends critically on the use of theory to guide the
extrapolation and each has reasonable success with cer-
tain materials and fails rather dramatically with others.
For this reason, it is not possible to say that any one
technique is "correct." It depends on the material to
which it is applied. Also, these problems with cor-
rectness of the extrapolation are in addition to the prob-
lems already discussed related to the determination of
the transition value from the experimental data. A small
problem with terminology arises here also in that the
extrapolated upper critical field is nearly universally
designated H t2, a term already used (see eq (7)) to indi-
cate the theoretical critical field in the absence of para-
magnetic limiting. In some cases there is no problem
with this dual usage, but in others there definitely is the
opportunity for some confusion.
Criticalfield versus temperature. This technique re-
lies on the result from GLAG theory:
H*2(0)=a[dHc2dT]Tr.r:Tl, (14)
where a is a constant equal to 0.69 for dirty materials and
to 0.72 for clean ones. To use this method, the critical
field value is measured in the region near T. and the
resulting plot is used to get the slope and the critical
temperature. Typical data from the literature are shown
in figure 15. The success of this method depends on how
closely the material obeys the simple GLAG theory.
The relationship in eq (14) can also be modified to ac-
count for various effects like paramagnetic limiting be-
fore the extrapolation is made, but this requires a knowl-
edge of the material properties that may not exist. Also,
the value of the differential is strongly dependent on the
measuring current, with changes of as much as 30%
reported for an order of magnitude change in the cur-
rent [22]. As an example, note the widely different val-
ues obtained for the critical field of NbSn in the two
plots in figure 15. One cannot really say that current
density was the cause of the difference, but it is a strong
possibility. Thus, the chance of agreement of an extrap-
olated measurement of this type with the upper critical
field measured directly depends on the measurement
parameters and also on the extent to which the subject
material can be described by the various theoretical
treatments available. In this latter situation, the common
materials are in not too bad shape. Commercial quality
Nb3Sn is agreed to be a simple GLAG-theory material,
while the NbTi alloys show only a small amount of
paramagnetic limiting of H,,. On the other hand V 3 Ga
has a strong paramagnetic limit and the more exotic
materials, such as Pb-Mo-S, cannot in general be fit to
the theory even with the extensive modifications avail-
able for use in the literature.
There is another reason that one desires to have accu-
rately measured data on the quantity dHW,/dT near T,: it
allows an experimental determination of the electronic
specific heat coefficient, Ay, that figures prominently in
much of the theory. Comparison of eqs (15) and (5)
show that the differential divided by the normal re-
sistivity gives the value for gamma, assuming the proper
theoretical value has been used for the proportionality
coefficient. Application of this concept to numerous
NbTi alloys is given by Hawksworth and Larbalestier
[8].
Critical current versusfield. Methods of assuring that
a sample is at a fixed temperature other than that of a
liquid helium bath are not easy to achieve experi-
mentally. This fact makes the measurements just de-
scribed quite difficult. An alternative technique is to use
critical current data taken as a function of magnetic field
at relatively modest fields and use pinning theory to
extrapolate the data to zero critical current, which
should occur at H42. The success of this method depends
not only on the correct measurement of the critical cur-
rent, but also on knowledge of the exact behavior of the
pinning force with field strength. For NbTi alloys, the
expression,
FJ=c H,`h(l-h), (15)
has proven useful in some instances [39], although the
value of the exponent is not certain, being in the range
2.0 to 2.5 in most cases. Under the proper circumstances
a simple linear extrapolation of J. to zero is acceptable
1221. The material most investigated by this technique is
probably Nb 3 Sn. The pinning force expression as de-
rived by Kramer (see the discussion for eq (12)) for this
material is
(16)
where K, is a constant for the conductor. The value of K,
and its dependence on H,2, ic and other parameters may
change slightly depending on the particular theoretical
modification chosen for the scaling [11]. In any event, it
is conventional to rewrite eq (16} as
(J, H)' =K,1Hoa512(H( H-H), (17)
so that the equation becomes effectively linear in H. The
quantity on the left hand side of the equation is then
plotted as a function of applied field and a linear extrap-
olation made to zero. This method is illustrated by the
108
F,=K, h1(l-h)2,


4 8 12 16 20
TEMPERATURE. K
Figure 15-Typical data showing
the behavior of the slope of H0 2
versus Tnear T, for several com-
mon materials. The upper graph
is from [37] measured with a cur-
rentdensityof I.OA/mm'. Theex-
trapolated value of Foll for the
Nb,Sn sample is 18.45 T. The
lower graph, from [381, shows
data taken at a current density of
0.02 A/mm 2 and a fit to those
data using the simple GLAG
theory expression (eq (14)).
4 8 12 16
TEMPERATURE. K
plot of 4.2 K data shown in figure 16 in which the actual
behavior of the curve is also shown, indicating the de-
parture observed at low current values. This conductor
is the same one as shown in the lower part cf figure 15.
The present extrapolation results in a significantly lower
value for H, 2. In another instance the same author ob-
served this method to give values for Nb 3Sn that were
too high compared to those obtained by direct mea-
surement [20]. Furthermore, it has been seen that the
extrapolation is not useful for highly aspected conduc-
tors such as tapes [11]. Application of the method to
other high field materials requires a reevaluation of the
109
8
6
I.-
0
4
2
0
0
30
I-
Cuj
C-
XS
0
1.
20
10
0
0


20
Figure 16-Determination of the
upper critical field of Nb 3 Sn by
the Kramer plot extrapolation
[38]. The dashed line shows the
extrapolation. Measured values
are also shown in this region.
Note that this sample is also the
one for which data are shown in
the lower part of figure 15.
24
MAGNETIC FLUX DENSITY, T
constants used in eq (12) and effectively requires a more
detailed analysis than the linear plot [19].
3.6 Reporting of Data
Since part of our goal is to evaluate the structure of a
standard for critical field measurement, one consid-
eration that is always of importance is the content of an
adequate report of measurement. The many problems
(or potential problems) outlined above seem to call for a
very detailed report if an adequate assessment of the
results is to be made by a reader interested in applying
them to his own problem or evaluation. We suggest the
following listing be used as a guide to the necessary
components of a report. Clearly, not all parts will be
required in every case.
How the transition was determined from the raw
data, including voltage or electric field criteria (where
appropriate) and the point on the transition curve cho-
Sen for the reported value.
Width of the transition between stated limit points.
Details of sample geometry, internal structure,
orientation with respect to the measuring field, mount-
ing method considering questions of induced strain and
thermal contact (for variable temperature methods).
Variable temperature methods require careful
assessment of the effect of magnetic fields on the ther-
mometry. Methods of calibration used to account for
this effect should be described.
Results
The critical field with correct symbol [e.g., ].(T),
Measured directly or extrapolated.
Temperature of stated value (may or may not be
temperature of measurement).
Estimated accuracy of the value given.
Experiment
Measurement technique used.
Each measurement method has its own set of
reporting requirements. Most are the typical error and
parameter choices related to any measurement with
such a system. A few are of prime importance for crit-
ical field measurement reports.
Resistive transition-the current density, voltage
probe separation, distance of voltage taps from the
current contacts.
Magnetic technique-the exact method used, sam-
ple mass, magnitude of measurement fields (for in-
ductive methods), calibration technique and accu-
racy, noise on unprocessed signal.
110
400 ~1
I
-
m
CY-o
3001
200i
100
1 1 1
Nb3 Sn conductor
10,000 filaments
0.4 mm diameter
Ba 2
n1 I I "n I
U U-%
0 12 16
-


Specific heat-thermometer calibration and re-
lationship to sample temperature, sample mass, ad-
denda loss evaluation, heater power levels.
Modern data collection techniques frequently involve
processing of the data very early, perhaps even before it
is seen by the experimenter. All such processing steps
should be mentioned.
A point that is often neglected is the accuracy of the
applied magnetic field measurement. Calibration of
magnets, including evaluation of field inhomogeneity
and, in the case of superconducting magnets, the effect
of frozen-in flux is a difficult task. It is suggested that a
calibration check be made every several months and
certainly when the magnet system is first put into ser-
vice.
Extrapolation
Details of an extrapolation technique should be
given including:
The exact method used, including modifications to
the theory employed and the actual equations.
The range of actual data used in the extrapolation.
If at all possible, a graph showing the data and the
result of the extrapolation (see fig. 16).
4. Conclusions
As we mentioned at the beginning, the purpose of this
investigation is to evaluate the desirability and feasibility
of creating a standard for measurement of the critical
field of practical superconducting materials. The type of
standard under consideration is that typically produced
by organizations such as ASTM to assist in commerce.
Two standards already exist in the field of super-
conductivity, one for general definitions [43 and the
other for the measurement of critical currents below
600 A 11]. Such standards are created by consensus
among all interested parties and must be able to be used
by industrial laboratories in their day-to-day operation.
A further consideration is that there should be a demon-
strated need for the standard, at least in the forseeable
future.
A standard of this type can take several forms. It may
be any of the following: a list of definitions; a manual
outlining accepted measuring and reporting methods; a
detailed method of measurement in which apparatus,
technique, and report format are specified; or it may be
an artifact or standard reference material. Whatever the
form, it is essential that the standard be backed up with
adequate research to document the need for each re-
quirement of the standard. This is not a trivial problem,
and it is often neglected in the rush to create a standard
to solve a particular problem. Our feelings regarding the
need for and structure of a standard are given below, In
summary it seems that the time is not yet ripe for a
full-fledged standard, but there is some justification for
creating a list of standard definitions and, perhaps, an
"operation manual" or similar document. A standard
reference material approach might also prove useful, but
would be quite expensive.
4.1 Need for a Standard
Standards of the sort discussed here are usually cre-
ated in response to a need expressed by the community.
In the case of critical field, there has been a limited
expression of need. The commercial materials now in
use are, in general, adequately characterized by their
critical current versus field characteristic. Critical field
information is of most use to that group of researchers
who are trying to construct better practical materials for
high field applications by modification of the crys-
tallographic or electronic structure of various existing
materials, This group should agree among themselves
on the requirements for an acceptable measurement of
the critical field, but that is not adequate reason for
creating a standard. It is entirely conceivable that very
high field materials may become feasible in the future,
and the need could become great for a critical field
standard for commercial versions of those super-
conductors. We do feel that a few definitions related to
the critical field measurement should be added to the
general definitions standard, mostly the various mod-
ifications of H, discussed above. Furthermore, it is pos-
sible that certain groups, such as DoE, might want to
specify a critical field measurement method and data
analysis technique for a particular material. This could
be done, but it would require that some of the research
mentioned below be performed first if the document
were to have very wide application.
4.2 Measurement Standards
As should be clear from the analysis above, the cre-
ation of a detailed single measurement standard for crit-
ical field is probably impossible given the current state
of knowledge regarding the factors that influence H,2
and the inhomogeneous nature of the superconducting
portion of the practical conductor composite. However,
if an attempt were to be made, there are a few items that
should be considered. The only measurement technique
that is likely to be widely used in industry is the resistive
method applied at 4.2 K. A clever application of an
inductive technique might also be possible, but none has
111


appeared to date. Similarly, the possibility of routine
direct measurement is remote because of the expense of
high field magnets. Thus, extrapolation techniques
would have to be used and most likely those would be
critical current versus field extrapolations with the mea-
surements made at 4.2 K. Extensive research on the
pinning force phenomenon would be necessary. Signifi-
cant advances in understanding the effect of crys-
tallographic and metallurgical variations on the critical
field would be required. All these requirements could be
mitigated somewhat by the use of a standard reference
material as discussed below, but research on the mea-
surement methods and their related errors would still be
needed. A standard method should use a relatively high
current density, probably in excess of 100 A/mm 2 ,
which would avoid some of the problems, but would
result in lower critical field values.
4.3 Standard Reference Materials
This approach to the standardization of critical field
measurements is probably the most appealing for the
present circumstances. Unfortunately, it is also a very
expensive solution. The idea is to make a series of very
well characterized materials that could then be distrib-
uted for the calibration of apparatus. Such materials
could also be used to evaluate the various extrapolation
techniques. The characterization would require very
careful work, expertise in several measurement and
analysis techniques, access to high field magnets, and a
consensus as to the proper choices for the important
parameters. However, considerable progress is now be-
ing made in understanding the interactions between the
metallurgy and the superconducting properties of these
materials which may well result in an advanced (prac-
tical) superconductor with well-documented homoge-
neity and internal structure in the near future. This con-
ductor, if it can be made in significant quantities, would
be an ideal candidate for a critical field SRM.
It is a pleasure to acknowledge the help of the entire
NBS Superconductors and Magnetic Materials group,
headed by A. F. Clark, through many conversations and
suggestions. Special thanks are due R. B. Goldfarb for
assistance with the subtleties of the field of magnetic
units and J. W. Ekin for helping to keep the practicalities
of the topic in the foreground. Much of the information
on early experimental techniques was obtained from un-
published notes carefully prepared by D. T. Read. Mrs.
V. Grulke cheerfully prepared the manuscript, with
only occasional comments about amateur word-
processor users.
References
Listed here are references from the recent literature
in which the measurement or interpretation of critical
field data are discussed. Those used as text references
are numbered and make up the first part of the listing.
The others, listed alphabetically following the text
references, serve to provide background information.
Only a few of the many excellent theoretical treatments
are included.
[I] ASTM Standard for the Measurement of Critical Current
(1983).
[2] Powell, R. L., and A. F. Clark, Definitions of terms for practical
superconductors, 1. Fundamental states and flux phenom-
ena, Crogenics 17, 697-701 (1977).
[3] Powell, R. L., and A. F. Clark, Definitions of terms for practical
superconductors, 2. Critical parameters, Cryogenics 18,
137-141 (1978).
[4] ASTM Standard for Superconductor Terminology (1983).
[5] Matsumoto, H., and H. Unezawa, Interplay between magnetism
and superconductivity, Cryogenics 23, 37-51 (1983).
(6] Fickett, F. R., and R. B. Goldfarb, Magnetic properties, Chap-
ter 6 of Materials at Low Temperatures, American Society
for Metals, Metals Park, Ohio (1983).
[71 Nelson, R. A., SI: The international system of units, published
by the American Association of Physics Teachers, Stony
Brook, NY (1983).
[8] Hawksworth, D. G., and D. C. Larbalestier, Enhanced values of
H,2 in NbTi ternary and quaternary alloys, Adv. Cryo. Eng.
26, 479-486 (1980).
[91 Cody, 0. D., Phenomena and theory of superconductivity,
Chapter 3 of Superconducting Magnet Systems, H. Brechna,
ed., Springer-Verlag, New York, pp. 159-229 (1973).
[10] Beasley, M. R., New perspective on the physics of high-field
superconductors, Adv. Cryo. Eng. 28, 345-359 (1982).
[11] Suenaga, M., and D. 0. Welch, Flux pinning in bronze-
processed Nb 3Sn wires, in Filamentary A15 Super-
conductors, M. Suenaga and A. F. Clark, eds., Plenum Press,
New York, pp. 131-142 (1980).
[12] Hulm, J. K., and B. T. Matthias, Overview of superconducting
materials development, Chapter I of Superconducting Mate-
rials Science, S. Foner and B. B. Schwartz, eds., Plenum
Press, New York, pp. 1-61 (1981).
[13] Ekin, J. W., Superconductors, Chapter 13 of Materials at Low
Temperatures, American Society for Metals, Metals Park,
Ohio (1983).
[14] Huhm, J. K.; J. E. Kunzier and B. T. Matthias, The road to
superconducting materials, Physics Today, pp. 34-44 (Jan.
1981).
[15] Hulm, J. K., and B. T. Matthias, High-field, high-current super-
conductors, Science 208, 881-887 (1980).
[16] Fietz, W. A., and W. W. Webb, Hysteresis in superconducting
alloys-temperature and field dependence of dislocation pin-
ning in niobium alloys, Phys. Rev. 178, 657-667 (1969).
[17] Kramer, E. J., Scaling laws for flux pinning in hard super-
conductors, J. Appl. Phys. 44, 1360-1370 (1973).
[18] Ekin, 1. W., Mechanical properties and strain effects in super-
conductors, Chapter 3 of Superconductor Materials Science,
S. Foner and B. B. Schwartz, eds., Plenum Press, New
York, 1981, pp. 455-509.
112


[19] Ekin, J. W., Four-dimensional J-B-T-c critical surface for super-
conductors, J. Appl. Phys. 54, 303-306 (1983).
[20] Rupp, G., Parameters affecting prestrain and Bc, in multi-
filamentary Nb 3Sn conductors, Adv. Cryo. Eng. 26,
522-529 (1980).
[211 Larbalestier, D. C., Superconducting materials-A review of
recent advances and current problems in practical materi-
als, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17, 1668-1686 (1981).
[22] Evetts. J. E., The characterization of superconducting
materials-Conflicts and correlations, IEEE Trans. Mag.
MAG-19, 1109 (1983).
[23] Lee, Z. H., K. Noto, Y. Watanabe, and Y. Muto, A new aniso-
tropy of the upper critical fields Hz in the Cu,8,M6 S, single
crystal, Physica 107B, 297-298 (1981).
[24] Goodrich, L. F., and F. R. Fickett, Critical current mea-
surements: A compendium of experimental results, Cryo-
genics 22, 225-241 (1982).
[251 Schooley, J. F., and R. J. Soulen, Definition of the critical
temperature of practical superconductors, in Development
of Standards for Superconductors, F. R. Fickett and A. F.
Clark, eds., NBSIR 80-1629 (1979) pp. 20-26.
[26] Materials at Low Temperatures, R. P. Reed and A. F. Clark, eds.,
American Society for Metals (1983).
[27] Fischer, O.; H. Jones, G. Bongi, M. Sergent, and R. Chevrel,
Measurements of critical fields up to 500 kG in the ternary
molybdenum sulphides, J. Phys. C; Solid State Phys. 7,
L450-L453 (1974).
[28] Hein, R. A., and R. L. Falge, Differential paramagnetic effect in
superconductors, Phys. Rev. 123, 407-415 (1961).
[29] Stewart, G. R.; B. Cort and G. W. Webb, Specific heat of A15
Nb
3Sn in fields to 18 Tesla, Phys. Rev. B 24, 3841 (1981).
[30] Stewart, G. R., Measurement of low-temperature specific heat,
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 54, 1 (1983).
[31] Foner, S.; E. J. McNiff, Jr., B. T. Matthias, and E. Corenzwit,
Properties of high superconducting transition temperature
Nb 3 Ali,-Ge. alloys, Proc. Eleventh International Confer-
ence on Low Temperature Physics I1, 1025-11032 (eds. J.
F. Allen, D. M. Finlayson, and D. M. McCall) St. Andrews
(1968).
[32] Foner, S., High field superconductors, Colloq. Int'l. CNRS 242,
423-429 (1975).
[33] Neuringer, L. J., and Y. Shapira, Nb-25%Zr in strong magnetic
fields: magnetic, resistive, ultrasonic, and thermal behavior,
Phys. Rev. 148, 231-246 (1966).
[34] Soulen, R. J., and J. H. Colwell, Equivalence of the super-
conducting transition temperature of pure indium as deter-
mined by electrical resistance, magnetic susceptibility, and
heat-capacity measurements, J. Low Temp. Phys. 5,
325-333 (1971).
[35] Cave, J. R., and C. A. F. Weir, Cracking and layer growth in
Nb 3Sn bronze route material, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-19,
1120 (1983).
[36] Habermeier, H.-U., Disorder and the upper critical field of
NbGe, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17, 1657-1659 (1981).
[37] Spencer, C. R.; P. A. Sanger and M. Young, The temperature
and magnetic field dependence of superconducting critical
current densities of multifilamentary Nb 3Sn and NbTi com-
posite wires, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-i5, 76-79 (1979).
[38] Rupp, G.; E. J. McNiff, Jr. and S. Foner, Upper critical field in
multifilamentary Nb 3 Sn conductors, IEEE Trans. Mag.
MAG-17, 370-373 (1981).
[39] Hillmann, H., and K. J. Best, New measurements of critical data
of optimized NbTi superconductors, IEEE Trans. Mag.
MAG-13, 1568-1570 (1977).
Critical Field Determination for Practical
Superconductors
Braginski, A. I., and H. C. Freygardt, Workshop on superconductors
for magnets: Frontiers of technology, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17,
2343-2354 (1981).
Bulakh, I. E.; S. V. Drozdova, C. A. Kalyushnaya, V. M. Pan, V. F.
Primachenko, A. D. Shevchenko, N. V. Shevchuk, and M. V.
Shubaev, Ultrahigh critical magnetic field superconductors
Pb 9 fMo6 S.5 ., IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17, 1642-1644 (1981).
Dew-Hughes, D., Practical superconducting materials, Chapter 2 of
Superconducting Machines and Devices, S. Foner and B. B. Sch-
wartz, eds., Plenum Press, New York, pp. 87-137 (1974).
Fietz, W. A., and C. H. Rosner, Advances in superconductive magnets
and materials, IEEE Trans. Mag., pp. 239-259 (June 1974).
Flukiger, R.; S. Foner, E. J. McNiff, Jr., and B. B. Schwartz, Effects
of material parameters on H,2 in A15 superconductors, J. Mag.
Mag. Mater. 11, 186-188 (1979).
Flukiger, R., Phase relationships, basic metallurgy, and super-
conducting properties of Nb,Sn and related compounds, Adv.
Cryo. Eng. 28, 399-413 (1982).
Flukiger, R.; W. Schauer, W. Specking, L. Oddi, L. Pintschovius, W.
Mullner, and B. Lachal, The phase relationships in Nb
3 Sn wires at
low temperatures as detected by crystallographical (neutron and
x-ray diffraction) and by physical [B, 2(T), J, vs. c] measurements,
Adv. Cryo. Eng. 28, 361-370 (1982).
Fujii, G., Present practices in Japan for the measurement and defini-
tion of various superconducting parameters, Cryogenics 21, 21-38
(1981).
Geballe, T. H., and J. K. Hulm, Superconductors in electric-power
technology, Scientific American (November 1980).
Goncharov, 1. N., and 1. S. Khukharova, Investigation of the resistive
behavior of a type-II superconductor near the upper critical field
strength, Sov. Phys. JETP 35, 331-336 (1972).
Hoard, R. W.; R. M. Scanlan, G. S. Smith, and C. L. Farrell, The
effect of strain on the martensitic phase transition in super-
conducting NbSn, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17, 364-367 (1981).
Khan, H. R., and W. Schauer, Microstructure and superconductivity
of some C15 laves phase alloys: V
2 Hf, V 2Hf,,Nb4 9 and V2Hf51 Ti28,
IEEE Trans. Mag. MG-17, 1017-1020 (1981).
Landwehr, G., Problems connected with the generation of continuous
magnetic fields above 15 Tesla, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17,
1768-1774 (1981).
Larbalestier, D. C., Nb-Ti alloy superconductors-Present status and
potential for improvement, Adv. Cryo. Eng. 26, 10-36 (1980).
Larbalestier, D. C., Niobium-titanium superconducting materials,
Chapter 3 of Superconductor Materials Science, S. Foner and B. B.
Schwartz, eds., Plenum Press, New York, pp. 133-199 (1981).
Morohashi, S.; K. Noto, N. Kobayashi, and Y. Muto, Thermodynamic
properties and fundamental parameters of single crystal
Cui.sMoSt, Physica 1088, 929-930 (1981).
Orlando, T. P.; J. A. Alexander, S. J. Bending, J, Kwo, S. J. Poon, R.
H. Hammond, M. R. Beasley, E. J. McNiff, Jr., and S. Foner, The
role of disorder in maximizing the upper critical field in the Nb-Sn
system, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17, 368-369 (1981).
Roberts, B. W., Survey of superconductive materials and critical eval-
uation of selected properties, J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data 5, 581-821
(1976).
Scanlan, R. M., Superconducting materials, Ain. Rev. Mater. Sci. 10,
113-132 (1980).
Schauer, W., and W. Schelb, Improvement of NbSn high field critical
current by a two-stage reaction, IEEE Trans. Mag. MAG-17,
374-377 (1981)
Tachikawa, K., Recent developments in filamentary compound super-
conductors, Adv. Cryo. Eng. 28, 29-40 (1982).
113
