1 
 
1
SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
Significant Quantum Effects in Hydrogen Activation 
 
Georgios Kyriakou, Erlend R. M. Davidson, Guowen Peng, Luke T. Roling, Suyash Singh,  
Matthew B. Boucher, Matthew D. Marcinkowski, Manos Mavrikakis, Angelos Michaelides, 
and E. Charles H. Sykes 
 
 
 
Figure S1. The top graphs show the spread of HQTST beads (red dots) at 85 K over the one-dimensional barrier that 
was computed with DFT (green line) for both hydrogen and deuterium dissociative chemisorption (top left and top 
right respectively). Spreading of the beads across the barrier (going from the precursor physisorbed state to the 
chemisorbed state) is a signature for quantum tunneling through the barrier. A clear isotope effect is visible as the 
centroid heights (shown as blue crosses) are at different heights for hydrogen and deuterium, and the zero-point 
energy levels being at different heights (pink line), resulting in a higher effective quantum barrier for deuterium. The 
graph bottom left shows how the effective quantum barrier (accounting for both zero-point energy and tunneling) 
changes with temperature, with the inset snapshot showing the spread of beads from path-integral molecular 
dynamics at 85 K. The plot on the bottom right shows the quantum effects lead to a marked change in the rate of the 
chemisorption process when compared with the classical rates. 


2 
 
2 
 
 
 
Figure S2. Sample lattice for KMC simulations of H 2/D2 uptake. KMC simulations were performed on a 20x20 
periodic Cu(111) grid with 1% random surface substitutions of Pd atoms. Four types of sites were treated explicitly 
in the model, as shown in the figure above. H 2/D2 were allowed to occupy only Cu and Pd top sites, while H/D were 
allowed to occupy only Cu and Pd hollow sites. 
 
 
Figure S3. Activation energy barriers for the H 2/D2 dissociation step over Pd surface sites. The symbols represent the 
quantum tunneling (QT) barriers obtained using the quantu m path-integral molecular dynamics simulations and the 
solid lines denote the linear fits used for that process in our kMC calculations. 


3 
 
3 
 
Summary of Adjustments to DFT parameters in the KMC simulations 
KMC simulations performed using the DFT derived parameters (binding energies, activation 
energy barriers etc.) as the initial guesses to the model yielded no quantifiable H2/D2 uptake 
over the entire temperature range. Systematic adjustments in several of these DFT-derived 
parameters were needed to obtain a reasonable fit to experimentally observed trends. For the 
H
2 uptake simulations, molecularly adsorbed H2 was stabilized on Pd-atop surface sites, and 
H adatoms were stabilized on all hollow sites by 0.10 eV. The slope and intercept of the 
linear function describing the temperature-dependent barrier for H2 dissociation over Pd sites 
were adjusted in a way that resulted in a marginally higher barrier in the low temperature 
region and a slightly lower barrier in the high-temperature region when compared to the 
initial guesses, which were derived from the instanton calculations, as shown in Figure S4(a).  
Similarly, for the D
2 uptake simulations, adsorbed D2 was stabilized on Pd-atop surface sites 
by 0.20 eV, and D adatoms were stabilized on all hollow sites by 0.15 eV. The intercept of 
the temperature-dependent activation energy barrier for D
2 dissociation was increased by 0.07 
eV, and the classical barrier was decreased by 0.09 eV to fit the experimental trend, as shown 
in Figure S4(b). A summary of the adjustments made to the DFT-derived parameters is 
shown in Table S1. 
  

4 
 
4 
 
 
Figure S4.  Adjustments to the kinetic barriers for (a) H2 dissociation and (b) D2 dissociation on the Pd/Cu sites, as 
required in our KMC simulations to obtain good fits with the experimental trends. The quantum tunneling barrier 
was lower than the classical barrier for H2 dissociation over the entire temperature region of interest. The transition 
from quantum tunneling barrier to classical barrier is evident in the D2 case, as the (zero slope) classical barrier 
becomes energetically preferred at higher temperatures. 
 
  


5 
 
5 
 
Table S1.  Activation energy barriers for elementary steps included in KMC simulations. All energy barriers for H2 
and D2 processes are the same, with the exception of H2/D2 dissociation (Step 3) over surface Pd sites, as noted below. 
Elementary Step E act_forward_DFT (eV) E act_forward_adjusted (eV) 
(1) H2 (g) ↔ H2 (phy,Pd) 0.00 0.00 
(2) H2 (g) ↔ H2 (phy,Cu) 0.00 0.00 
(3) H2 (phy,Pd) ↔ 2H (PdCu) min(0.37 a, 0.002*T – 0.0654b) min(0.37, 0.0007*T + 0.08) 
      D2 (phy,Pd) ↔ 2D (PdCu) min(0.39 a, 0.0031*T – 0.061b) min(0.30, 0.0031*T + 0.009) 
(4) H2 (phy,Cu) ↔ 2H (Cu) 0.74 a 0.74 
(5) H2 (phy,Pd) ↔ H2 (phy,Cu) 0.12 0.27 c 
(6) H2 (phy,Cu) ↔ H2 (phy,Cu) 0.12 0.27 c 
(7) H (PdCu) ↔ H (Cu) 0.12 0.27 c 
(8) H (Pd) ↔ H (Pd) 0.12 0.27 c 
(9) H (Cu) ↔ H (Cu) 0.12 0.27 c 
a  ZPE corrected activation energy barriers obtained from DFT calculations 
b Linear functions used to describe the temperature-dependent quantum tunneling barriers obtained from quantum path-
integral calculations 
c The forward and reverse rate constants for diffusion events were reduced by several orders of magnitude (corresponding to 
a higher activation energy) while maintaining a constant Keq to avoid spending prohibitively large amounts of time 
simulating these events, thereby reducing the computational requirements for KMC simulations. All modifications in these 
rate constants were verified for convergence at each temperature by comparing them to the simulations with full diffusion 
rates to ensure that the results were unaffected by the reduction in rate constants. 
‘g’ and ‘phy’ in the parenthesis refer to gas-phase and physisorbed species, respectively. 
 