Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
A Brief Review of Recent Superconductivity 
Research at NIST 
Volume 94 Number 3 May-June 1989 
D. R. Lundy, 
L. J. Swartzendruber, 
and L. H. Bennett 
National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, 
Gaithersburg, MD 20899 
A brief overview of recent supercon- 
ductivity research at NIST is presented. 
Emphasis is placed on the new high- 
temperature oxide superconductors, 
though mention is made of important 
work on low-temperature superconduc- 
tors, and a few historical notes are in- 
cluded. NIST research covers a wide 
range of interests. For the new high- 
temperature superconductors, research 
activities include determination of physi- 
cal properties such as elastic constants 
and electronic structure, development of 
new techniques such as magnetic-field 
modulated microwave-absorption and 
determination of phase diagrams and 
crystal structure. For the low-tempera- 
ture superconductors, research spans 
studying the effect of stress on current 
density to the fabrication of a new 
Josephson junction voltage standard. 
Key words: ceramics; copper oxides; 
cryogenic engineering; crystal structure; 
electronic structure; materials science; 
measurement science; overview; per- 
ovskites; superconductivity. 
Accepted: January 26, 1989 
Contents 1.   Introduction 
1. Introduction  147 
2. Background  148 
3. Crystal Structure  150 
4. Impurity Effects  150 
5. Synthesis  151 
6. Processing-Property Relationships  157 
7. Electrical Contacts  161 
8. Electronic Structure  162 
9. Physical Properties  164 
10. Theory  168 
11. Applications  169 
12. Other High-Temperature Superconductors. 170 
13. Low-Temperature Superconductors  171 
14. Conclusion  173 
15. Acknowledgements  174 
16. References  174 
Research in superconductivity at NIST has a 
long history, in part because of its important 
applications to measurements and materials 
science. The recent discovery of materials with 
unexpectedly high superconducting transition tem- 
peratures has brought renewed interest in the 
science and technology of superconductors 
throughout the world. The purpose of this paper is 
to briefly review recent activities at NIST in this 
field and to discuss current usage and future 
possibilities for both conventional and high temper- 
ature superconductors. Some references will be 
made to historical superconductivity contribut- 
ions at NIST but a complete review is not 
attempted. 
147 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
2.   Background 
The field of superconductivity began with the 
discovery by H. Kameriingh-Onnes in 1911 that 
mercury wire at 4.2 K had zero electrical resis- 
tance. Zero resistance implied transmission of cur- 
rent at any distance with no losses, the production 
of large magnetic fields, or—because a supercon- 
ducting loop could carry current indefinitely— 
storage of energy. These applications were not 
realized because, as was quickly discovered, the su- 
perconductors reverted to normal conductors at a 
relatively low current density, called the critical 
current density, Jc, or in a relatively low magnetic 
field, called the critical field, He- In 1916, Silsbee, 
at the National Bureau of Standards, hypothesized 
[1] that the critical current for a superconducting 
wire was equal to that current which gave the crit- 
ical field at the surface of the wire. The reason for 
this behavior was not made clear until the discov- 
ery [2] of the Meissner effect in 1933. 
Table 1. Selected superconductor applications 
The discovery and development, in the 1950s 
and 1960s, of superconductors which can remain 
superconducting at much higher fields and currents 
made practical the production of useful supercon- 
ducting magnets (see table 1). Such high-field su- 
perconductors, which exhibit two critical fields 
designated Hci and Ha, are called type-II. In 1950, 
another NBS scientist, E. Maxwell, was the discov- 
erer [3] of the isotope effect, which was also inde- 
pendently discovered by Serin et al. [4]. This 
experimental observation was an important key to 
theoretical explanations of the mechanism of super- 
conductivity. In the isotope effect, the critical tem- 
perature for many superconductors depends on the 
isotopic mass, indicating that lattice vibrations are 
involved in the superconductivity, and that the at- 
tractive coupling between electrons is through the 
lattice vibrations (i.e., phonon-mediated). The dis- 
covery [5] of the Josephson effect in 1962 opened 
up exciting potential for the use of superconductors 
Application Advantage Comments 
U.S. built a 10 MW prototype; USSR is 
building a 300 MW prototype 
Pilot programs 
Prototypes tested 
Largest current commercial application 
of superconductivity; wide acceptance as 
medical diagnostic tool 
In research stage 
Used for mineral exploration; anti-sub- 
marine warfare potential; development 
underway for use in medical diagnosis 
Used in fast-sampling oscilloscope; 
potential computer logic elements 
In use by, and available from, NIST 
Prototype systems constructed in France 
and the Soviet Union 
Superconducting supercollider 
Navy has protoype 
Prototypes constructed by the 
Soviet Union 
Demonstrated by Japan 
Generators with superconducting 
wires in rotors 
Energy storage rings 
Power transmission lines 
Magnets for magnetic resonance 
imaging 
Chip interconnects 
SQUIDS (superconducting quantum 
interference devices) 
Josephson Junction switches 
Josephson Junction voltage standards 
Magnets for fusion devices 
High-energy physics 
Ship propulsion (motors) 
Magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) 
power generation 
Magnets for MHD ship propulsion 
Magnetic casting 
Magnetic separation 
Magnetic bearings 
IR sensors 
Magnets for magnetically levitated 
trains (MAGLEV)  
Lifetime cost savings up to 40% 
Eflicient, site independent, can revert from 
charging to discharging mode in less than 
1 second. Can stabilize system 
Reduced resistive losses 
Superconducting magnets result in shorter 
exposure times and sharper images compared 
to conventional magnets 
Lack of electrical resistance; reduces heat 
buildup; permits dense packing...rapid 
transmission of signal 
Extremely sensitive to magnetic fields 
Fast switching times, low power dbsipation, 
dispersionless transmission 
Reliable, stable. Absolute voltage based on 
fundamental constants 
Magnets to confine plasma 
High fields to guide beams, reduced energy 
consumption 
Smaller, quieter motors; elimination of gearbox 
High fields interact with a plasma to generate 
electricity 
Quiet, more efficient, higher potential speeds 
Eliminates contamination 
Separates weakly magnetic materials 
Eliminates friction 
Smaller packages 
Rapid and efficient mode of transportation Demonstrated by Japan 
148 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
in measurement science and in high-speed elec- 
tronic devices. 
Until 1986, the highest critical temperature ob- 
tained for any superconductor was only 23.2 K. 
This meant that superconductors had to be cooled 
by liquid helium—an expensive and sometimes un- 
reliable process. Consequently, many potential ap- 
plications were not commercially viable. In 
addition, most scientists had come to regard super- 
conductivity as a mature field with Httle possibility 
for any significant increase in critical temperatures. 
All this suddenly changed with the discovery by 
K. A. Bednorz and J. G. Muller of high-tempera- 
ture superconductivity. 
In April 1986, Miiller and Bednorz published a 
paper [6] on the possible existence of superconduc- 
tivity in a ceramic material, La-Ba-Cu-O, with a 
superconducting transition temperature, Tc, of 
30 K, the Erst increase since 1973. Their discovery 
was the result of several years of extensive investi- 
gations on metal oxides, some of which had earUer 
been shown to be superconducting. It is note- 
worthy that superconductivity in oxides had been 
known for many years. In fact the first oxide super- 
conductor was discovered at NIST. In 1964, 
Cohen predicted [7] that, based on the Bardeen- 
Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory [8], semiconduc- 
tors could become superconductors. At this time a 
metal-oxide semiconductor—SrTiOs—being inves- 
tigated at NIST seemed to have the characteristics 
postulated by Cohen as necessary for superconduc- 
tivity. Kahn and Leyendecker [9] had determined 
the energy band structure of SrTiOa and 
Frederikse et al. [10] had determined the density of 
states in the conduction band. Schooley et al. [11] 
found superconductivity below 0.3 K in reduced 
SrTiOs in 1964; this oxide was demonstrated to be a 
type-II superconductor by Ambler et al. [12] in 
1966 (see fig. 1). Tb was only 0.3 K however. 
Though substituting Ca and Ba for Sr [13] raised 
the TQ to 0.5 K, the low critical temperatures lim- 
ited general interest in these materials. 
According to Miiller and Bednorz [6], their re- 
search was influenced by the French work on the 
La-Ba-Cu-0 system [14]. However, the French sci- 
entists were not looking for superconductivity. 
When researchers from the University of Tokyo 
[15] confirmed the findings of Miiller and Bednorz, 
the era of "High-Temperature Superconductivity" 
was ushered in. 
The end of 1986 and the beginning of 1987 was 
marked by synthesis of rare-earth metal oxides of 
increasingly higher TQ, culminating with the dis- 
covery [16] of the Y-Ba-Cu-O (YBCO) supercon- 
ductor with a Tc of 93 K. This was a significant 
breakthrough because the material was supercon- 
ducting in liquid nitrogen (boiling point=77 K). 
Nitrogen is much more abimdant than helium, 
much less expensive, and liquid nitrogen cryogenic 
systems are less complex than systems using helium 
refrigeration. One application which could benefit 
from nitrogen cooling is the development of hybrid 
microelectronic technology (semiconductor-super- 
conductor devices)—both gallium arsenide and sili- 
con can be tailored to perform better at liquid 
nitrogen temperatures. 
40 60 ao 
Applied Field, Oe 
Figure 1. Partial hysteresis loop of SrTiOj obtained at 0.15 K 
using a ballistic galvanometer. The shape of the loop indicates 
that SrTiOs is a type-II superconductor. (Unpublished data 
courtesy of J. F. Schooley.) 
The ease of making YBCO permitted its investi- 
gation by many laboratories. In fact, a number of 
high school students synthesized it for use in sci- 
ence fair projects. At various times researchers re- 
ported Tc's greater than 100 K—some reported 
superconductivity at room temperature and above. 
These observations were not confirmed; many of 
the results were irreproducible or the samples were 
not stable. At the end of 1987, the highest TQ stood 
at 95 K. In February 1988, Japanese, Chinese, and 
U.S. researchers found superconductivity in cop- 
per-containing oxides without rare earths. These 
new non-rare-earth containing superconductor ma- 
terials incorporate either bismuth or thallium. 
Compounds containing the latter have a confirmed 
Tc of s 127 K. These new high-temperature super- 
conductors containing bismuth or thallium may 
have some advantages over the superconductors 
containing rare-earths. Since the critical current 
density increases as T/TQ decreases, a Tc far above 
the operating temperature of liquid nitrogen (77 K) 
is advantageous. Furthermore, the new materials 
are more stable than the rare earth superconduc- 
tors; they do not lose oxygen or react with water. 
149 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
In addition to trying to develop new high-7'c ma- 
terials, researchers also were trying to fabricate 
materials with improved critical current densities 
(Jc). Current densities as high as 10'-10' A/cm^ 
may be needed for applications such as magnets, 
motors, and electronic components. The high-tem- 
perature superconductors are ceramics and have all 
the brittleness problems associated with non-super- 
conducting ceramics. In addition, Jc is not an in- 
trinsic property of superconductors but is a 
function of the processing procedure. The rare- 
earth superconductors also have highly directional 
properties. Therefore, a crucial problem is to fabri- 
cate the material into a useful shape and still have 
sufficiently high Jc and mechanical strength for 
practical applications. 
Single crystal films of YBCO have current densi- 
ties above a million A/cm^. However, results for 
bulk polycrystalline materials are orders of magni- 
tude less. Recently, researchers have grown non- 
oriented polycrystalline thallium films with Jc in 
the millions [17]. Novel processing techniques such 
as explosive compaction, rapid solidification and 
laser ablation are currently being explored. 
NIST personnel have been actively engaged in 
fabricating and characterizing high-rc supercon- 
ducting materials. This paper is a brief synopsis of 
their wide-ranging activities. Some mention of sig- 
nificant work in other superconductors wUl also be 
made. 
3.   Crystal Structure 
As was true for the previously mentioned 
SrTiOs, the superconducting YBCO phase is a dis- 
torted perovskite [18]. Ideal perovskites have the 
form ABX3, where A and B are metallic cations 
and the X atoms are non-metallic anions. In super- 
conducting yttrium barium copper oxide, the struc- 
ture (fig. 2) is a defect perovskite of the form 
YBaaCuaOv.j: (YBCO). Oxygen and oxygen vacan- 
cies are the key to the superconductivity. One 
widely-used method for refining the structure of 
YBCO is neutron diffraction because x-rays are not 
sensitive to oxygen atoms. 
YBajCujO,.;. withx=0, 0.2, 0.5, and 1 was stud- 
ied [19-22] using the neutron diffraction facilities 
of the NIST reactor. YBajCuaO, and YBajCujOss 
are orthorhombic and superconducting, and are 
characterized by Cu-O chains along the b axis. In 
the O7 material, oxygen atoms occupy 4 different 
sites with 0(4) forming chains along the i-axis di- 
rection of the orthorhombic cell. The environ- 
ments of the barium atoms and the copper atoms 
located at (000), (OOz) change significantly with the 
amount of oxygen in the cell. YBa2Cu306, which is 
tetragonal and a semiconductor, is derived from 
YBa2Cu307 by removing oxygen along the b axis. 
While all the oxygen sites are occupied in the O7 
material, in the 06.8, there are oxygen vacancies lo- 
cated in the chains. The superconducting TQ is re- 
duced for deviations from O7, indicating that 
oxygen vacancies disrupt conduction pathways. 
• Cud) 
0 Cu(2) 
0 Ba 
0 Y 
^ 0(1) 
m 0(2) 
m 0(3) 
^ 0(4) 
Figure 2. Crystal structure of YBCO as determined from neu- 
tron diffraction showing location of the four O sites, two Cu 
sites and single Ba and Y sites [21]. 
The crystal structure of a strontitmi analog of 
La-Ba-Cu-O, Lai.85Sro.i5Cu04, was also examined 
by neutron diffraction [23]. This highly two-dimen- 
sional structure, shown in figure 3, was found to be 
tetragonal at ambient temperature, but became or- 
thorhombic at 200 K, resulting in the buckling of 
the Cu-O planes. 
4.   Impurity Effects 
One of the outstanding questions in high-Tc 
YBaiCujOv superconductors is the relative impor- 
tance of the CU-O2 planes [Cu(2)-site] and the Cu-O 
chains [Cu(l)-site]. Zn and Ga [24] have been used 
150 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
to selectively substitute the Cu(2) and Cu(l) sites 
while maintaining the oxygen content near 7, as 
determined using neutron diffraction. These re- 
sults, plus other recent work on Al, Co, and Fe 
substitutions, have shown that, in general, 3+ ions 
(e.g., Ga, Co, etc.) substitute predominantly for 
Cu++ on the chain sites, suppress the orthorhombic 
crystal distortion, and enhance the overall oxygen 
content above 7 due to valency effects. On the 
other hand, di-positive Zn++, which substitutes 
only on the "plane" sites, retains the orthorhombic 
structure, but rapidly destroys superconductivity 
with only a few percent Zn substitution. These 
neutron results (combined with bulk data) have 
demonstrated that the integrity of the planes is 
much more important in sustaining high-rc super- 
conductivity than the chains, and have also shown 
that the orthorhombic cell distortion is not essen- 
tial for high transition temperatures. 
=4 
OT 
Figure 3. Generalized view of the highly two-dimensional te- 
tragonal Lai.85Sro.i5Cu04 structure. On the scale of the figure, 
the orthorhombic and the tetragonal structures are not distin- 
guishable except that the orthorhombic unit cell is twice the 
area in the plane perpendicular to c. The large shaded areas are 
La and Sr atoms; the small circles, Cu. Oxygen atoms are at the 
vertices of polyhedra [23]. 
Much of the prevailing theoretical work pertain- 
ing to the origin of the superconducting pairing in 
the high-7'c superconductors has focussed on a 
magnetic coupling of spins. YBa2Cu307_;( with to- 
tal oxygen content below s;6.5 (i.e., jc>0.5) has 
been shown to exhibit strong antiferromagnetic 
correlations. To examine these matters in more de- 
tail, neutron diffraction studies [25] were carried 
out on materials in which Co has been substituted 
for the Cu on the "chain" site in order to enhance 
the magnetic interactions. The results showed mag- 
netic ordering temperatures near 400 K, represent- 
ing more than enough energy to account for the 
;^95 K superconducting transition temperatures. 
For Co concentrations of 20%, distinct ordering 
temperatures were found for plane (;:;400K) and 
for chain (^200 K) site antiferromagnetic order- 
ings, while for 80% substitutions, both sites or- 
dered at the same temperature (^;435 K). The form 
of the temperature dependence of the observed 
magnetization revealed strong couplings, both 
within the planes and also between chain and plane 
sites. 
By using the Mossbauer effect in Fe-doped rare 
earth-bariimi-copper-oxygen samples (with the rare 
earth being Y, Pr, or Er) the antiferromagnetic 
coupling correlations could be directly observed 
[26, 27]. Since the Fe atoms substitute for the Cu 
on both chain and plane sites, the antiferromag- 
netism present on the plane sites and the paramag- 
netism on the chain sites could be simultaneously 
observed in the Mossbauer patterns. It was also 
demonstrated that asymmetries in the Mossbauer 
spectra are the result of a preferential alignment of 
the crystallites that arise during the normal sample 
preparation process. 
5.   Synthesis 
Phase equilibria diagrams provide phase compo- 
sitions and relationships under specific conditions. 
Such information is needed to characterize materi- 
als and develop synthesis procedures. Roth and his 
colleagues have been active in determining phase 
relationships for the Y-Ba-Cu-O system. Prelimi- 
nary phase diagrams were constructed [28] for the 
binary systems BaO-l/2Y203; BaO-CuO^ and 
1/2Y203-Cu0;t, the bounding oxide systems of the 
ternary, and Y-Ba-Cu-O. Nine compounds are 
found in the BaO-YaOj-CuO;, system [29, 30] in the 
temperature range 950-1000 "C. Three of the com- 
pounds, Ba2YCu307_j: (the superconducting phase), 
BaY2Cu05 (the "green" phase which is found to 
151 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-Jime 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
exist with other phases), and Ba3YCu20z were 
characterized by x-ray diffraction (XRD) [31-33]. 
Substitutions of lanthanides for yttrium in BaYiOs 
were also characterized by XRD [34]. Fourteen 
standard reference patterns for six high-rc super- 
conducting and related phases have been reported 
[35]. Roth [28] found that all compositions in the 
ternary system containing 50% BaO always 
showed a small amount of the green phase. A tenth 
phase, BajCuOs, which has a melting point below 
950 °C was characterized by XRD [36]. Studies of 
phase equilibria in air [37] showed that the super- 
conductor phase melts through a four-phase region 
(fig. 4) from about 950-1002 °C. This region is due 
to the presence of CO2, probably mainly in the liq- 
uid phase. The presence of CO2 in the supercon- 
ducting phase was inferred. The transition from 
tetragonal to orthorhombic structure was con- 
cluded to be metastable and no large primary phase 
field consisting only of the superconducting phase 
and liquid was identified. 
The substitution of SrO for BaO in the 
BaO:Y203:CuO system was studied to determine 
the extent of solid solution of Sr in YBCO and to 
identify any new phases. It was found that Sr could 
be substituted for Ba up to about 60%. There were 
no ternary compounds in the Sr-Y-Cu-O equivalent 
to the three ternary phases in the Ba system, but a 
new binary phase Sri4Cu2404i was found. The 
SrO-CaO-CuO system was also studied as part of 
an investigation of the SrO-CaO-Bi2-03-CuO sys- 
tem. At 950 °C, there were three extensive solid 
solutions at (Sr, Ca):Cu ratios of 2:1, 1:1, and 24:41. 
A new ternary Sr;,Cai_;tCu02 (jcO.15) was found 
and a new phase, probably CaCu2, stable only be- 
low -740 °C, was identified [38, 39]. 
Since the oxygen content in YBa2Cu307_;t 
strongly affects the superconducting and structural 
properties, the effects of variations in anneahng 
(oxygenating) were studied. Single-phase samples 
were annealed at temperatures from 400 °C to 
1000 °C   [40,   41],   then  quenched   in  a   liquid- 
BaO(BaC03) 
BC4Y2O7 BQSCUO^ 
EC 
BaCu02 
0 
1/2(Y203) 
BazYjOs 
Ba3Y409 
BaY204 2:1:3 
40   Y2CU2O5   60 
Mol % 
80 100 
CuO 
Figure 4. Ternary phase diagram of Y-Ba-Cu-O constructed from figures 1 and 6 of reference [37]. 
(Unpublished figure courtesty of R. Roth.) 
152 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
nitrogen-cooled copper cold well, through which 
liquid-nitrogen-cooled helium gas was passed at a 
rapid rate. The goal was to quench in the high- 
temperature structures and stoichiometries. Sam- 
ples were initially examined by x-ray diffraction. It 
was observed that, as the annealing temperature 
decreased, the ceramic became more orthorhom- 
bic—going from fully tetragonal at 1000 °C to fully 
orthorhombic at 400 °C (fig. 5). The phase transi- 
tion occurred at 708-719 °C. The dependence of 
cell volume on temperature was not Unear, becom- 
ing substantial only at 400-650 °C, the orthorhom- 
bic region. The limiting volumes were the volume 
of YBa2Cu307 annealed in air and YBa2Cu306 an- 
nealed in argon. Two possible orthorhombic re- 
gions were indicated—a <b =c/3>, and a <,b <c/3. 
ac susceptibility measurements were made for sam- 
ples    annealed    up    to    708 °C    (samples    an- 
nealed above 750 °C showed no Meissner effect). 
As shown in figure 6, a plot of Tco (JTC onset) ver- 
sus annealing temperature showed two plateaus— 
91 and 58 K. While these might indicate two 
different orthorhombic phases, lack of corroborat- 
ing x-ray data prevented a firm identification. 
YBa2Cu307_;t was also examined by thermogravi- 
metric analysis (TGA) and differential scanning 
scanning calorimetry (DSC). TGA results also 
gave indications of two regions. DSC/TGA analy- 
sis showed a thermal event when YBa2Cu307_;( was 
heated to 900 K which might be the result of mi- 
crohomogeneities or of discontinuities in the oxy- 
gen vacancy ordering [42]. DSC studies of this 
material [43] showed that the phase transition does 
not associate with an enthalpy change, a character- 
istic of second-order transitions. Based on this and 
the x-ray data, the phase transition appears to be a 
11.84 
11.82 
11.80 
1 1.78 
1 1.76 
11.74 
11.72 
•< 11.70 
en 
c o 11.68 
'to 
c IB 
E 
b 3.88 
o 
3.86 
3.84 
3.82 
3.80 
Orthorhombic Tetragonal 
400 500 600 700 800 
Temperature (°C) 
900 1000 
Figure 5. A plot of the cell dimensions of YBCO as a function of annealing temperature. 
As the temperature increases, the cell dimension bo decreases while ao increases [40]. 
153 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
second order, order-disorder type. TGA was also 
used to determine the oxygen diffusion coefficient 
of YBCO [44]. The oxygen was found to diffuse 
faster than in some insulating oxides, such as AI2O3, 
but slower than in oxides which have been classed 
as oxygen conductors. The diffusion constant plot- 
ted against 1/ris linear from 400-600 K. From 600- 
750 K, it is not linear and only weakly dependent 
on temperature, which may be due to structural 
phase changes. 
400     500      600      700      800     900 
Annealing Temperature 
1000 
Figure 6. A plot of 7co versus annealing temperature. Note the 
two plateaus at 91 K and 58 K [41]. 
Structural phase transitions of Ba2RCu306+^ 
(where R=Sm, Gd, or Er) were studied [45] to 
determine the effect of the span of radii and the 
magnetic properties of Gd and Er. Samples were 
annealed at 400-1000 °C and quenched in a liquid- 
nitrogen-cooled copper well. The x-ray spectra 
were similar to that of YBCO. The orthorhombic- 
tetragonal transition always occurred between 625- 
770 °C. The Gd compounds showed an increase in 
the c axis due to oxygen vacancies, as in YBCO. 
The rare-earth elements with smaller radii stabi- 
lized the orthorhombic phase to a higher tempera- 
ture. The phase transformations are apparently sec- 
ond order and may involve two orthorhombic re- 
gions which correspond to two TQ plateaus—one 
at 92 K and one between 52 and 60 K. These re- 
gions have the same general structure, but different 
oxygen distributions corresponding to ordered and 
disordered modifications within the orthorhombic 
structure. No obvious plateau was detected for the 
Gd compounds however. TGA also identified 
plateaus—three apparently single-phase regions for 
Sm, Y, and Er and two for Gd. The fact that the 
literature Tc values are about the same for aU the 
compounds suggests that the superconducting elec- 
trons are not strongly associated with the rare- 
earth elements [46]. 
The effect of annealing atmosphere (fig. 7) was 
also studied [47, 48]. Samples annealed and cooled 
in oxygen were found to have sharper supercon- 
ducting transitions than those annealed and cooled 
in air. They also had sharper diffraction peaks. The 
broadening is due to crystallite size differences and 
microstrain/chemical inhomogeneity which can 
originate from twinning, anisotropic thermal ex- 
pansion, and oxygen vacancies. Thermal analysis 
determined that the maximum oxygen content is 
obtamed by annealing at 450 °C, or shghtly above, 
and that the oxygen loss is reversible [43]. 
It is clear from these results that the processing 
parameters must be carefully controlled to yield 
the desired material. There is an additional con- 
cern. While it is known that exposure to water can 
destroy the superconducting ability of YBa2Cu307 
it also has been found that acetone can be deleteri- 
ous [49]. To obtain dense, strong ceramics, the 
powders are often milled to a small size before sin- 
tering. When an acetone slurry is used, a non- 
superconducting tetragonal phase can be formed if 
the slurry is dried at 200 °C. The superconducting 
orthorhombic phase can be restored by annealing 
at 950 °C in O2. 
It may be possible to avoid the grinding steps 
altogether by employing chemical synthesis. Four 
systems—the coprecipitation of yttrium, barium, 
and copper hydroxy-carbonates; the hydrolysis of 
yttrium, barium, and copper alkoxides in ethanol/ 
toluene; the reaction of barium and yttrium 
alkoxides with Cu(OH)2; and the hydrolysis of 
yttrium, barium, and copper alkoxides in 
methoxyethanol/ethanol were studied [50]. All the 
systems showed BaCOs, CuO, and Y2O3 when 
heated at 400-600 °C. The samples must then be 
heated to 800-950 "C to obtain YBazCujO,., and 
subsequently annealed in oxygen at 450-600 °C to 
obtain superconductivity. 
154 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
20 
Figure 7. Effect of oxygen on the structure of YBCO. a) x-ray diffraction pattern of 
YBCO annealed in air (orthorhombic). b) x-ray diffraction pattern of YBCO annealed in 
argon (tetragonal). The most striking features are the intensity reversal of the two sets of 
doublets at around 32-33° and 57-60°, and the shifting of positions of corresponding peaks 
which indicates different cell dimensions [47]. 
The making of YBCO films was also investigated 
using two different techniques. In the first ap- 
proach, films were made from a bulk superconduc- 
tor by laser ablation [51], as shown in fig. 8. A 
pulsed-laser source was used to vaporize the sur- 
face of a disk made from superconducting YBCO 
and deposit a film on a fused silica substrate. Films 
were made by irradiating a spot or raster scanning. 
The resulting films were 1 cm^ in area and thicker 
in the center, ~ 2 jxm, than on the edges. The as-de- 
posited films had superconducting regions with 
properties comparable to the bulk material. Similar 
results were obtained for La-Sr-Cu-O (LSCO). The 
potential advantage of this method is that the film 
does not need a high temperature anneal to incor- 
porate oxygen. This is important in hybrid elec- 
tronic (superconductor-semiconductor) applica- 
tions where a heat treatment could destroy the 
semiconductor. 
A second technique investigated for making 
YBCO films [52] utilized co-evaporation of Y, Cu, 
and BaF2. These materials were deposited simulta- 
neously onto a room-temperature substrate. Oxy- 
gen was introduced into the vacuum system during 
deposition. At this stage, films containing BaF2 are 
tolerant to moisture, air, positive photoresist, de- 
veloper, and common solvents. Annealing in oxy- 
gen and water vapor incorporated additional 
oxygen into the film and reacted away the fluorine. 
The choice of substrate is critical for many applica- 
tions. The best films have been fabricated on Sr- 
TiOa. A resistive transition, about 0.5 K wide, is 
shown in fig. 9. 
155 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
VACUUM ClIAMllCri 
EXCIMSn LASEH 
(193 NMI 
PAIITIALLY 
REFLECTING 
MJRROn 110%1 
PARENT nUUK 
/   SPECIMEN 
ABLATED 
MATEniAL 
riiM 
SUUSTRATE 
Figure 8. Schematic of laser-ablation process [141]. 
600 
400 
I c 
'> 
100 150 200 
Temperature  (K) 
300 
Figure 9. Resistive transition of YBCO film made by coevaporation of Y, Cu, and BaFj on a 
SrTiOs substrate [52]. 
Films deposited using the second method are 
patterned using conventional photolithographic 
processes [52]. Prior to deposition of the YBCO, 
the substrate is coated with photoresist, exposed 
with a pattern using a projection printer, and de- 
veloped. The exposed and developed resist exposes 
bare substrate where the patterned YBCO is to re- 
main. After the room temperature deposition of the Y, 
Cu, and BaF2, but before the oxygen anneal, the re- 
maining photoresist is dissolved, removing the un- 
wanted portions of the film. Annealing in oxygen 
as before creates a patterned superconducting film. 
156 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Superconducting strips with dimensions as small 
as 1.5 jxm have been successfully fabricated. A pat- 
terned film having a constriction of 5 X 5 fim had a 
critical current density of 5.6xlO*A/cm^ at 4K. 
As mentioned earlier, such high critical current 
densities are not yet achievable in bulk samples. 
Patterned films of this sort are being used in funda- 
mental studies of noise in small constrictions and as 
transition edge bolometers. Efforts to make high- 
re Josephson junctions are in progress. 
6.   Processing-Property Relationships 
The understanding of the relationship between 
microstructure, processing, and properties is par- 
ticularly important for the high-temperature super- 
conductors. These are oxygen-sensitive, brittle 
materials whose processing parameters need to be 
controlled to produce optimum properties. The un- 
derstanding of this relationship requires, in addition 
to the measurement of electrical conductivity, 
techniques such as x-ray diffraction, magnetic sus- 
ceptibility, and ultrasonics. Neutron activation 
analysis can be used to determine the stoichiometry 
[53]. ac susceptibility measurements can be used to 
characterize the superconducting properties. The 
ac data consist of a real and an imaginary compo- 
nent. The real part can be used to determine Tc and 
to estimate the percentage of superconducting sam- 
ple. There have been questions about the interpre- 
tation of the imaginary part. Goldfarb et al. [54] 
have provided evidence that the imaginary part is 
almost totally due to hysteresis losses and have 
shown how the temperature at which the slope of 
the imaginary component becomes positive upon 
warming can be used to estimate Hci- To observe a 
sharp magnetic transition and complete bulk dia- 
magnetism, the applied measuring field must be 
very small. As shown in figure 10, two distinct 
superconducting components in a single-phase 
specimen were identified [55]—one a relatively 
high Tc, Hci superconductor and the other a rela- 
tively low Tc, Hci superconductor (see fig. 11). 
These two components were found in all sintered 
high-temperature superconductors that were exam- 
ined. The results of subsequent experiments on sin- 
tered and powdered samples suggested that the 
first component was intrinsic to the material, while 
the second arose from inter-granular coupling [56]. 
1 
CO 
0.5 
a o o w 
in 
o   _ 
X 
0.5 
-1 
 1 1 ' 
YiBa2Cu308_5 
 1 ' 
Oxygen Annealed              ^ 
7G0°C, 40 h                  ^ ^'Sx" 
^         91- 3 K 
_ «^.,,.<5«'^*-'^^''^               86. 8K       ">.^ 
x= lOHz 0 
0 = 100 Hz + 
0 
+ = 1000 Hz - 
Field Amplitude 
.^ 225 A/nn   (2.8 Oe)               J t 
" 
1 
0.06 
75 80 85 90 
Temperature (K) 
0.00 
-   -0.03 
95 
0.03   ^^ 
O 
o K 
(n 
'a c 
">< r-1 
-0.06 
Figure 10. ac susceptibility vs temperature for YBCO. In the imaginary part, two peaks are apparent. Note 
that the susceptibility is almost independent of frequency [55]. 
157 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
< 
o 
1.2 
1.0 
0.8 
0.6 
^      0.4 
O 
HJ      0.2 
0.0 
-o 
1 
H clb 
Oxygen Annealed 700°C, 40 h 
15 
0) 
10 ;^ 
CD • f—I 
CD 
O 
20 40 60 80 
Temperature (K) 
100 
Figure 11. Lower critical fields vs temperature for the two components observed in figure 8. The g 
refers to the higher Ti component [55]. 
Since the superconducting properties of the new 
superconductors are strongly dependent on mi- 
crostructure and composition, techniques available 
for elemental and molecular~microanalysis, princi- 
pally, electron-probe compositional mapping and 
micro-Raman spectroscopy were employed to 
investigate a variety of samples in the YBCO 
system. Electron-probe compositional mapping is 
computer-aided x-ray microanalysis furnishing 
spatially-resolved digital images in which the dis- 
played grey scale is related to the true composition 
of the specimen and not merely to x-ray intensity of 
any given element. In studying YBCO, three wave- 
length dispersive spectrometers were employed; 
one each for the detection of yttrium, barium, and 
copper. A representative result is shown in figure 
12. Compositional mapping is most useful, there- 
fore, in the identification of compositional hetero- 
geneities on the micrometer-scale, and the 
determination of dissimilar phases in a high- 
temperature superconductor [57-59]. 
Raman and infrared spectroscopy are widely 
used tools for investigating and characterizing 
high-ITc superconductors. The Raman spectra ex- 
hibit vibrational modes mostly related to Cu-O 
bonds and to vibrations of other atoms in the lat- 
tice. The spectra are sensitive to differences in 
crystal structure, bonding, and phase relationship 
and, furthermore, show a variation with oxygen 
content, thus providing information on oxygen sto- 
ichiometry. Micro-Raman spectroscopy extends 
these capabilities into the microscopic domain with 
a spatial resolution comparable to that of electron- 
probe microanalysis. Preliminary work [60] has 
shown that this technique can provide molecular 
information not revealed by macro or average 
structure methods. A micro-Raman spectrum of 
the YBCO superconducting ceramic in the or- 
thorhombic phase is shown in figure 13. Any varia- 
tions in the frequency positions and relative 
intensities of the bands observed in these spectra 
are indicative of compositional and structural dif- 
ferences attesting to sample heterogeneities. 
158 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
5a 
t 
\ t I 1 i 
i 
'.'^^vn 
■■>.• 
■ O'Tif-i-" 
Figure 12. Electron-microprobe compositional maps for Y, Ba, and Cu and corresponding SEM 
image of YBCO sample. Region A shows a decrease in yttrium concentration, but no copper or 
barium enhancement; B shows an yttrium-poor region corresponding to a barium-rich but un- 
changed copper region; C shows an enhancement of barium with no changes in copper or 
yttrium concentrations [58]. 
Lattice defects in YBCO can be identified by 
field-ion microscopy (FIM). This technique per- 
mits the qualitative determination of surface and 
bulk atomic configurations and microstructural fea- 
tures. Atomic striations observed in FIM images 
are possibly due to preferentially conducting layers 
in the material. Thus the superconductivity is pos- 
sibly localized to specific layers, which are tenta- 
tively identified as the Cu-O planes of the 
orthorhombic unit cell. FIM identified various lat- 
tice defects such as dislocations and grain 
boundaries in the superconductors YbBazCujOT.;^, 
SmBazCusO?.;,, GdBa2(Cu,96Fe.04)3O7-;„ and 
GdBa2(Cu.92Fe,08)O7_;, (0<X<.5), in addition to 
YBCO [61-64]. 
A new technique has been developed to observe 
the superconducting transitions—magnetic-field- 
modulated microwave absorption (MAMMA) de- 
tection [51, 65]—which differs from conventional 
microwave techniques in that it observes only mag- 
netic-field induced changes in the sample's mi- 
crowave loss as a function of temperature. The 
technique is accomplished in a conventional ESR 
spectrometer by applying a small ac magnetic field 
to the sample and phase detecting the microwave 
power reflected from the cavity at the ac modula- 
tion frequency. It has the advantages of ease of im- 
plementation using commercial ESR apparatus: 
high sensitivity due to noise reduction by narrow- 
band amplification and phase-sensitive detection, 
159 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
>- 
z LJ 
I- 
Q 
LJ 
CC 
UJ 
I- 
O 
CO 
1 r 
High-Tc Superconductor Y-Bo-Cu-Q 
YBajCUjO^ 
(orthorhombic) 
single micropartlcle 
(size "^'IS/i.m) 
Xo=5!4.5nm 
1200      1000      800        600       400 
RAMAN SHIFT (Acm"') 
200 0 
Figure 13. Micro-Raman spectrum of an arbitrary isolated particle of the superconduc- 
tor YBaiCujO?-! (jc=;0) identified to be in the orthorhombic phase. The spectrum is 
excited with the 514.5 nm line of an argon/krypton ion laser at low irradiance, employ- 
ing 5 mW in a ~ 12 p.m beam spot. The microparticle is supported by a lithium fluoride 
substrate. The resolution is 7 cm"' [60]. 
and selectivity since only changes in sensitivity 
which are magnetic field dependent will be ob- 
served. The latter is characteristic of a supercon- 
ductive transition, as illustrated in figure 14a. This 
MAMMA technique has been used to study bulk 
and film specimens of lanthanum, yttrium, and bis- 
muth high-temperature superconductors (fig. 14b). 
These films were prepared from oxide targets by 
laser ablation [51]. 
The composition and microstructure of YBCO 
was studied as a function of processing [45]. Stron- 
tium was found to be the major contaminant. The 
starting compositions were barium rich relative to 
the Y:B:Cu ratio, which remained constant during 
processing. Electron-probe microanalysis revealed 
three types of inhomogeneities that are within re- 
gions which correspond to the YBCO composi- 
tion—(i) Ba-rich; Y, Cu-poor, (ii) Y-rich, Ba-poor, 
and (iii) Cu-rich with lesser amounts of Ba and Y. 
These phases have been identified as (i) BaCu204, 
(ii) BaY2Cu03, and (iii) the remnants of a liquid 
phase that is present at the sintering temperature. 
The liquid phase limits /c since the intergranular 
phases are not superconducting. Another source of 
insulating grain boundary film is carbon, which 
may arise from atmospheric CO2 and from solvents 
used during grinding. During low-temperature oxi- 
dation of the sintered material, residual carbon may 
react with oxygen to form gas-filled pores along 
the grain boundary and a high concentration of de- 
fects adjacent to the grain boundary. Hence, it is 
apparent that a large degree of compositional 
control is needed to control the properties of 
YBCO. 
Processing-property relationships for YBCO 
have been studied as a function of annealing tem- 
perature and environment. It was found [57, 58, 66] 
that annealing at low temperature in oxygen is nec- 
essary to obtain the highest Tc, sharpest transition, 
and the largest superconducting fraction. Samples 
contained a small amount of inhomogeneous sec- 
ond phase liquid, insufficient to prevent current 
flow. Sintering was more rapid and to a higher 
density in air than in oxygen. Segregation occurred 
during sintering and pores and micro-cracks were 
observed. The thermal expansion was very high for 
a ceramic—indicating that thermal shock may be a 
problem for these materials. Fracture toughness 
was quite low and the material was susceptible to 
moisture-enhanced cracking. 
160 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(a) 
z o — 
> = 
u 
10 
TEMPERATURE «) 
15 
(b) 
z 
> - 
H o- 
o 
80 90 100 
TEMPERATURE IK) 
no 
Figure 14. a) Microwave (MAMMA) signal vs temperature for 
a bulk sample of niobium. The T^ obtained was in good agree- 
ment with known values of T^ for niobium, b) Microwave 
(MAMMA) signal vs temperature for bulk YBCO (above) and 
thin film (below) made by laser ablation from the bulk. The 
value of 7'c=95 K is in good agreement with resistivity and 
Meissner data. The double peak for the thin film is indicative of 
two phases with slightly different T^s [51]. 
Sintering at 950 °C gave the best density but 
poorest superconductivity due to a lack of porosity 
required for oxygen diffusion. Sinter-forging was 
investigated [66] reasoning that it should be possi- 
ble to increase the current density by aligning the 
grains. The grains had a high density center with 
the edges cracked and not very dense. Large yt- 
trium-rich bands were formed perpendicular to the 
stress direction as a result of local segregation. The 
apparatus is shown in figure 15. The c axis tended 
to be aligned parallel to the applied stress direction. 
The transport JQ was less than 100 A/cm^ how- 
ever, and in some cases even zero. This was due to 
weak linking. Transmission electron microscopy 
showed second phases at grain boundaries, forming 
S-N-S junctions [67]. 
I Silicon   Carbide   Ram 
Alumina   Platen 
Sample 
! 
Figure 15. Sinter-forging apparatus. The load was applied in the 
vertical direction with no die wall constraints. The sample was 
separated from the ram by alumina plates [67]. 
Another possible method to align the grains 
would be to cast the samples in a magnetic field. 
The alignment is due to anisotropy of the paramag- 
netic susceptibiUty of the grains. Ostertag et al. [68] 
studied the magnetic casting of YBCO and HBCO 
(H=holmium). A slurry of the superconducting 
powder and isopropanol was placed in a homoge- 
neous magnetic field of 2 T for 30 minutes (see fig. 
16). The samples, which were then pressed and sin- 
tered, tended to align with their c axes parallel to 
the applied field ([001] alignment). However, this 
alignment is not sufficient for high JQ- Alignment in 
the [010] and [100] or [010] is also needed since tilt 
decreases Jc- Clean grain boundaries are also a re- 
quirement. Current densities of samples aligned in 
the oxygen-rich state were up to five times greater 
than samples aligned in an oxygen-deficient state 
and then oxygenated, due to the presence of non- 
superconducting jimctions. Bulk Jc calculated from 
magnetic measurements were 10^-10* A/cm^. 
7.   Electrical Contacts 
One problem that existed in the study of high- 
temperature superconductors was too high a resis- 
tivity in the electrical contacts. Contacts made of 
indium solder, silver paint or epoxy, direct wire 
161 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Magnot ) 
J jr^ v 
^Slurry 
( Magnet ->-   f Magnet 
'C-axis ^^  
Filter Vacuum 
Pump 
Figure 16. Configuration for casting in a magnetic field. The 
slurry of isoproponal and powder was placed in a homogeneous 
2 T magnetic field [68]. 
bonds, and pressure contacts have contact surface 
resistivities in the range of 10"^ to 10 fi-cm^ which 
is several orders of magnitude too high for mea- 
surement and applications. Contact resistivities of 
10""* to 10~' fl-cm^ or lower are needed. Ekin and 
coworkers [69-71] developed a method consisting 
of sputter etching the surface of the superconduc- 
tor to remove the degraded surface area immedi- 
ately before depositing noble metal (Ag or Au) 
pads, followed by annealing the noble metal/super- 
conductor interface in oxygen. Contact resistance 
for the silver pads showed metallic behavior, de- 
creasing by a factor of 3 to 12 as the temperature 
decreased from 295 to 76 K. Contact surface resis- 
tivities less than 10 JLIU cm^ at 76 K were achieved 
without oxygen annealing. After annealing in oxy- 
gen at 500 °C for 1 hour, contact resistivities were 
reduced to as low as 0.1 nfl cm^ [70]. The low oxy- 
gen affinity of the noble metals may play an impor- 
tant role in passivating the contact interface. On 
the other hand, oxygen and indium formed a semi- 
conducting oxide with resistivities greater than that 
of pure indiimi [70, 72]. Room-temperature diffu- 
sion of oxygen is limited in the noble metals. 
thus protecting the YBCO. This may explain why 
there can be low contact resistance despite expo- 
sure of the YBCO to air. 
Moreland and Goodrich [73] have developed sil- 
ver screen contacts for rapid characterization of 
YBCO. The screens can be used for making 
voltage contacts and voltage taps. Silver wire 
screens are interleaved between calcined powder 
sections and fixed to form a composite pellet. Sil- 
ver diffuses in the powder during sintering to form 
proximity contacts permeable to oxygen. 
8.   Electronic Structure 
One method of obtaining information on the 
electronic structure of superconductors is by tun- 
neling measurements. A technique used for such 
measurements was developed by Moreland and 
Ekin [74]—the break-junction technique (fig. 17). 
In a break junction, tunneling occurs across the 
fracture of a bulk sample. A small piece of a bulk 
material is mechanically fractured under liquid he- 
lium and the freshly fractured surfaces are adjusted 
to form a tunneling barrier with helium as the insu- 
lator. The sample can be a single crystal, polycrys- 
tal, or sintered pellet. Unlike other tunnehng 
techniques, break junctions give information on the 
interior of bulk samples. Break junctions have been 
used to study both the lanthanum and yttrium su- 
perconductors. Tunneling junctions for LSCO 
(fig. 18) exhibited a variety of tunneling behavior 
[75-77]. Scanning-electron microscopy showed a 
rough surface with numerous voids and scattered 
REACTION 
FORCE 
SILVER PAINT 
CONTACTS 
GLUE JOINT- 
"FREE- COVER 
SLIP FOR 
CONCENTRATING 
STRAIN 
BENDING GLASS 
BEAM 
Figure 17. Fabricating a break junction. A superconducting filament is mounted on a 
beam which is bent using an electromagnetic force. Once the filament is fractured, the 
beam is relaxed to form a tunneling contact within the fracture of the filament. Contact 
may be either through a thin insulating medium (vacuum, gas or liquid) or by closing 
the fracture to form a point contact. An electromagnetic assembly affords precise 
control of the tunneling gap [84]. 
162 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
inclusions. This variability may be due to tunneling 
between different phases in the material. Large en- 
ergy gaps and deep structure in the conductance 
derivatives are evidence for a strong coupling 
mechanism. 
-■ao      SO O 
VOLTAGE 
Figure 18. Voltage vs current curves for a LSCO electron tim- 
neling break junction immersed in liquid helium at 4 K for three 
different barrier settings. The bottom curve was the most com- 
mon V-I characteristic found [75]. 
Break junctions for YBCO gave results indica- 
tive of strongly coupled superconductors [78] but 
had the same variability as LSCO. Variable results 
in perovskites can be explained as being due to the 
structure which consists of alternating layers of in- 
sulating and conducting platelets which can be su- 
perconducting, semiconducting, or both [77]. 
While evidence for the usual pairing state associ- 
ated with the BCS theory was found, so was a 
lower /cR product which is indicative of a lower 
energy gap than that expected from BCS theory. In 
addition, a Josephson junction effect was found 
[79]. Evidence of an intrinsic energy gap was found 
in both LSCO and YBCO [80]. The gap scales with 
Tc and decreases and vanishes when approaching 
Tc from a lower temperature. This points to the 
energy gap being quasiparticle in nature. 
Break junctions in single crystals should permit a 
direct measurement of gap anisotropy if the sam- 
ples are fractured along cleavage planes. To this 
end, break jtmctions of single crystal HoBa2Cu30x 
(HBCO) were compared with polycrystalline 
YBCO [81]. Both had junction conductance in- 
creasing linearly with junction bias. Gap structure 
of YBCO occurred more often during adjustment 
of the junctions than with HBCO. This may have 
been due to a lack of oxygen penetration in the 
single crystal. The results may have been affected 
by the fact that the HBCO fracture surfaces were 
not ideal. The V-I curves showed the square-law 
dependence of current seen in many tunneling mea- 
surements of polycrystalline YBCO. 
Based on the fact that the anomalies in the break 
junction results may be microstructural in origin 
and not due to the electron coupling mechanisms, 
several models have been proposed. In the granular 
model [82], the superconductor is divided into 
grains isolated from each other by insulating tun- 
neling junctions. A second model, the multiparticle 
model [83], assumes that the grains are oriented to 
form a series array of junctions near a primary tun- 
neling contact. Moreland et al. have developed a 
third model to explain these results in perovskites 
[84]. In the laminar model, the microstructure con- 
sists of a complex tunneling matrix with parallel 
superconducting laminae connected to each other, 
the point contact, and the surrounding grains by 
tunneling junctions. This structure may be mani- 
fested in a layered perovskite single grain with su- 
perconducting layers separated by high dielectric 
insulating barriers. The individual laminae form a 
series-paraUel network of superconducting junc- 
tions within a single grain of the material. Al- 
though there is some evidence that casts doubt 
upon the granular model, the exact model is still in 
question. 
Tunneling measurements were also made on 
YBCO thin films [85] using the method of squeez- 
able electron tunneUng (SET) junctions developed 
by Moreland et al. [86]. In contrast to the break 
junction measurements of bulk samples where the 
spectra are often without energy gap features, SET 
spectra invariably contain such features. This im- 
plies that the film is superconducting near the sur- 
face, in contrast to results on bulk materials which 
indicate that only parts of the interior are super- 
conducting. Improvement of surfaces by the addi- 
tion of very thin noble metal films, which become 
superconducting by the proximity effect, is under 
investigation [87]. 
163 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Measurement of the electronic structures of the 
high-temperature superconductors are important in 
providing supporting evidence for theoretical mod- 
els of superconductivity. Kurtz [88] has written a 
review of the experimental measurements of the 
valence electronic structure of LSCO and YBCO. 
NIST's Synchrotron Ultraviolet Radiation FaciUty 
(SURF-II) was used to study these features. The 
electron structure of YBCO was measured using 
resonant photoemission, which is associated with 
the enhancement of valence photoelectron features 
resulting from the coupling of excitation and decay 
mechanisms at the core-electron photoabsorption 
onsets. Radiation in the 60-160 eV range was used 
[89], (fig. 19). The upper edge of the valence band 
was found to nearly coincide with the Fermi level 
and the density of states was small. There was no 
distinctive edge. The valence band did not resonate 
with the photon energy. Furthermore, there was 
no evidence of valence band structural changes as 
the temperature was lowered below the critical 
temperature. The copper oxide in the material was 
found to give spectra similar to CuO. 
35     30 25      20      15      10       5 
Binding Energy (eV) 
Figure 19. Ultraviolet photoemission spectra of fractured 
YBCO. The top curve is at h=60eV, the bottom 106 eV, and 
each curve is separated by 2 eV. At 60 eV there are two valence 
band features—at binding energies of 5 and 9.4 eV. Increasing 
the photon energy, features become apparent at 12.4, 15,0, and 
28.8 eV. The features at 9.4 eV are due to Y/Cu; at 12.4 eV to 
Cu, and at 15.0 and 28.8 eV, Ba [89]. 
Another study using SURF-II but at an energy 
range of 20-600 eV [90], confirmed the 2+ valency 
of copper in YBCO. The National Synchrotron 
Light Source at Brookhaven was used to provide 
information on oxygen, barium, and yttrium. It was 
found that the p-type partial density of states is 
very small at the Fermi energy. The electronic 
structure observed in the photoemission measure- 
ments is associated with the oxygen 2p orbitals. 
This study also observed no change in the spectra 
as the temperature was lowered below the critical 
temperature. 
Additional studies carried out by Kurtz, 
Stockbauer, and coworkers included photoemis- 
sion of YBCO and LSCO, which revealed a reso- 
nance in the peak located at a binding energy of 
~9.5 eV for photon energies spanning the onset of 
0-2s excitations. This feature is associated with 
oxygen excitations. The satellite is suppressed on 
surfaces that are superconducting within the probe 
depth of the spectroscopy [91]. Photoelectron 
spectroscopy of high-rc superconductors, includ- 
ing the newer bismuth and thallium superconduc- 
tors revealed that the materials have a highly 
hybridized Cu-O valence band and resonant satel- 
lites which imply that the materials are highly con- 
nected. No substantial changes were observed in 
the electronic structure as the materials were 
cooled from room temperature to below TQ. The 
materials reacted strongly with H2O and CO2, 
forming hydroxides and carbonates, but reacted 
more weakly with O2 and CO [92, 93]. 
Photoemission measurements of YBCO revealed 
two constraints on any theoretical treatments of its 
electronic structure based on the observation of a 
2.3 eV feature [94]. First, YBCO has a higher 
charge carrier concentration at the Fermi level 
than in related lower-Tc and non-superconducting 
compounds. Secondly, there is a large contribution 
from oxygen to the density of states near the Fermi 
level, mainly derived from oxygen in the Cu-O 
chains. The 2.3 eV feature is intense in the or- 
thorhombic phase, but weak in the tetragonal. 
9.   Physical Properties 
Current densities are a critical parameter for the 
successful application of high-temperature super- 
conductors. A cryogenic bathysphere developed 
by Moreland et al. [95,96] for resistance measure- 
ments of high-Tc superconductors is shown in 
figure 20. This device thermally isolates an envi- 
ronmental chamber from surrounding cryogenic 
164 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
fluids. The bathysphere has the advantages of (i) 
being compact enough to fit in the base of a high- 
field superconducting solenoid without the use of a 
re-entrant dewar; (ii) the sample remaining dry; (iii) 
being inexpensive; (iv) having no moving parts; 
and (v) having sufficient thermal contact between 
sample and thermometer provided by the ambient 
pressure exchange gas to maintain thermal equi- 
librium within ±0.1 K while the temperature 
changes as fast as 3 K/min. It may also be possible 
to adapt this device to susceptibility, critical cur- 
rent, and electron tunneling measurements. The 
bathysphere has been successfully tested with NbTi 
in Uquid helium and YBCO in liquid nitrogen. 
As previously mentioned, current densities of the 
order of one million A/cm^ will be required for 
most applications. While films with these current 
densities have been produced, bulk materials have 
had much lower current densities. Ekin et al. [97, 
98] studied bulk sintered YBCO samples from sev- 
eral different laboratories. Using V-I characteris- 
tics, they found that while a field of over 30 T was 
needed to suppress all superconductivity, a field of 
only a few tesla could suppress the transport cur- 
rent (fig. 21). The measured transport current was 
significantly lower than that measured by magne- 
tization. The superconducting transition in poly- 
crystalline YBCO is very broad. This is consistent 
with a model of a weak-link region between high- 
current-density grains. At least part of the behavior 
is due to intrinsic conduction anisotropy. This an- 
isotropy has been observed in YBCO single crys- 
tals with the weakest conduction along the c axis 
[99]. The low current density could be due to: (i) 
impurities or low-Tc phases at the grain boundaries 
or (ii) misalignment of the grains. Electron mi- 
croscopy gives no evidence of the former [100]. 
The location of the weak links in YBCO could be 
at the grain boxmdaries, within the grains or be- 
tween the Cu-O planes. Transport critical current 
densities have been measured at low magnetic 
fields in several kinds of high-rc superconductors 
fabricated in many different laboratories, and fitted 
with a model which assumes that the barriers to 
current flow are Josephson weak links which have 
a statistical distribution of sizes and orientations 
[101-103]. The data were shown to follow the Airy 
current-field pattern. The fits of the data to theory 
are good for all the samples. The fitting parameter 
essentially gives the average dimension of the junc- 
tions, which in all instances is about equal to the 
grain size, thus furnishing convincing evidence that 
the barriers at low magnetic fields are at the grain 
boundaries. This finding indicates that a possible 
method for increasing the current density would be 
by processing in such a manner that the grains 
would be aligned. 
I-I-J Support Tube 
Vacuum Can 
Sample 
Thermometer 
Radiation Shield 
Circuit Board 
Thermal Anchor 
Stainless 
Copper 
Fiberglass 
Epoxy 
1 cm 
Figure 20. Cryogenic bathysphere for resistance measurements 
of high-Tc superconductors [95, 96]. 
165 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
oil       0.1     I        0.2 (IT) (0 05T) (OT) 
0.3 0.4 
Current, A 
Figure 21. Voltage vs current characteristics for a YBCO sample in transverse magnetic fields in liquid 
nitrogen at 77 K. High magnetic fields were required to increase the slope to the normal resistance value 
at Tc, and the transport critical current is suppressed by very low fields. The curves are nearly linear at 
currents well above the critical currents indicated by the arrows [100]. 
Other physical properties of interest include the 
elastic constants, which have practical significance, 
such as in stress and fracture toughness, and are 
related to physical properties such as specific heat 
and hardness. Elastic constants relate strongly to 
interatomic potentials and force constants and can 
be used to calculate the Debye temperature which 
is used in the BCS calculation of the critical tem- 
perature. They also relate strongly to any phonon- 
mediated superconductivity mechanism. Values of 
elastic constants can be determined by ultrasonic 
methods and one of them, the bulk modulus, by 
x-ray diffraction. The elastic properties of metal- 
oxide superconductors have been reviewed by 
Ledbetter [104]. 
Ledbetter and coworkers have measured the 
elastic constants of YBCO using ultrasonic tech- 
niques. YBCO was compared to BaTiOs [105] and 
was found to have a lower elastic stiffness which 
could arise from oxygen vacancies or microcracks. 
The latter have a larger effect than a comparable 
fraction of spherical voids. Study of six YBCO 
specimens [106] showed that some specimens may 
be free from softening defects and their properties 
may reflect intrinsic behavior. A check on this is to 
compare elastic and thermal Dcbye characteristic 
temperatures. Elastic constants were measured as 
the specimens were cooled through the transition 
temperature [107-110]. Samples run in helium gave 
reproducible results suggesting that these measure- 
ments represented intrinsic material properties. 
Elastic constants showed irregularities above and 
below, but not at, the critical temperature. The 
shear-modulus results (fig. 22) departed from those 
expected for a simple second-order normal/super- 
conducting transition, in agreement with the results 
for the dilation [111]. The value of the Poisson ra- 
tio behaved irregularly below the transition tem- 
perature indicating a change in interatomic forces 
supporting Geballe's view [87, 112] that a large 
fraction of electrons enter into Cooper pairs, the 
gap is approximately equal to the Fermi energy, 
and coupling is strong. During cooling from 160- 
70 K, YBCO behaved as if it imderwent a sluggish 
phase transition. Two YBCO materials with differ- 
ent oxygen contents, x=6.10 and 6.92, showed 
similar ambient-temperature elastic-constant val- 
ues, and similar temperature behavior [113], but the 
jc=6.92 YBCO demonstrated a higher elastic stiff- 
ening during cooling to 4 K. 
The behavior of the elastic constants can be de- 
scribed by a "reentrant softening" model [114, 
115]. Softening occurs just above the critical tem- 
perature suggesting growing lattice instability with 
decreasing temperature. Premonitory behavior of 
this type is known to be associated with martensitic 
166 

Volume 94, Numter 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
or displacive structural transformations in various 
materials including the A15 superconductors [116]. 
The increased stiffness below the transition temper- 
ature is the result of the softening being offset by 
the increased stiffness associated with the develop- 
ing superconducting phase. The calculation of the 
Debye temperature based on this model is in agree- 
ment with other experimental measurements. The 
model also predicts that the elastic constants will 
have a higher value in the normal state than in the 
superconducting state. The results of measure- 
ments on LSCO are also in agreement with this 
model. Strong thermal hysteresis, especially in the 
dilational modes, were found in subsequent studies 
by Ledbetter and Kim [117]. 
1.100 
inoo 300 
T(K) 
Figure 22. Relative shear modulus G=pvf between 275 and 
4 K for YBCO. Above % (65 K for this material), behavior is 
normal. Below T^, contrary to expectation, G apparently in- 
creases. However, a reentrant-softening model reconciles this 
apparent anomaly [107]. 
The bulk modulus of YBCO was determined by 
measurements in a diamond-anvil cell using an en- 
ergy dispersive x-ray diffraction technique [118]. 
The least compression was observed within the 
perovsldte layers because of the oxygen packing, 
and the largest was observed perpendicular to 
these layers. As seen in figure 23, the decrease in 
volume was essentially linear with applied pres- 
sure. The value of the bulk modulus was larger 
than that determined by ultrasonic techniques. 
Ledbetter and Lei [119] focused on this difference 
and its implication for the related Griineisen 
parameter, supporting their measurements by 
ionic-bonding calculations. 
Ultrasonics can also be used to provide addi- 
tional information [120]. The ultrasonic velocity in 
YBCO was found to be different on warming than 
on cooling, with the greatest difference occurring 
in the first cycle. Three attenuation peaks were 
found on warming: I at 65-75 K, II at 134 K and 
III at 183 K. The hysteretic velocity changes and 
peak I appear related to a first-order phase transi- 
tion involving magnetic superstructure in non- 
superconducting portions of the sample. Peak III 
appears to be consistent with a defect relaxation 
process. The origin of peak II, which was depen- 
dent on thermal history, could not be identified. 
175 
Ol65 
160 
Ba2Cu3Y07 
V = 172.2 - 0.88 P 
-+- + + 
4 6 
Pressure, 
8 
GPa 
10     12 
Figure 23. The pressure dependence of the volume of YBCO. 
The lattice parameters are determined from x-ray diffraction 
data. These data are used to calculate the isothermal bulk mod- 
ulus [118]. 
Neutron inelastic scattering was used to measure 
the phonon density of states in an attempt to ascer- 
tain if any significant perturbations occurred in the 
phonon modes at the superconducting transition 
temperature [21], A "softening" of such modes is a 
key aspect of conventional phonon-driven super- 
conductivity. The normalized density of states at 
120 K for YBazCujOT is shown in figure 24. The 
spectra consist of a strong double peak near 20 
meV and a second principal maximum at approxi- 
mately 70 meV. Measurements below the transition 
temperature gave only negligible changes in the 
observed spectra which could be accounted for by 
anharmomic effects, and did not indicate any major 
changes in the overall phonon modes accom- 
panying the superconducting transition. Oxygen- 
deficient YBaiCujOv-;^ showed a pronounced 
weakening of the 70 meV features in the density of 
states and a fdling in and broadening of the lower 
167 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
o 
YBapCu.O 3^7 T  =   120  K 
—I— 
15 30 45 60 
E(meV) 
75 "GO" 105 
Figure 24. Vibrational density of states as measured with inelastic neutron scattering at 120 K. The 
largest spectral weight is contained in peaks involving oxygen vibrations [21]. 
energy features, reflecting a change in the har- 
monic modes associated with the absence of oxy- 
gen in the Cu-O "chain" structure. These features 
are equivalent to modes observed by Raman scat- 
tering [60]. 
The magnetic hysteresis loops of YBCO were 
also studied [121]. The shape of the loops well be- 
low Tc (fig. 25) brought to mind the constricted 
hysteresis loops observed in certain ferromagnetic 
materials which are usually associated with mag- 
netic aftereffects. Similar dynamic effects with time 
constants on the order of 10 seconds at 40 K were 
found to be present in YBCO. This is in addition to 
flux creep (due to thermally activated jumping 
over flux-pinning sites) observed for longer time 
periods. When the measurement time is fast com- 
pared to both time constants, the hysteresis loops 
can be approximated by a critical-state (i.e., Bean- 
Kim) model [122-126]. The experimental hysteresis 
loops at higher temperatures are more pinched 
than the critical-state model because of the move- 
ment of fluxoids. 
The critical-state model, which provides a 
method for calculating the energy losses in type II 
superconductors, has been extended by Peterson 
[127] to include the train of magnetization jumps 
often seen at low temperatures in moderate-to-high 
magnetic fields. Chen and Goldfarb [128] have de- 
veloped an analytic method for using the critical- 
state model to determine critical currents from 
magnetization measurements on the sample shapes 
most often encountered in developmental studies. 
10.   Theory 
The interaction between two test charges in a 
solid can be described in terms of a total dielectric 
function that includes electronic and lattice polar- 
ization. Stability requirements place restrictions on 
the dielectric function. Allen et al. [129] show that 
the eigenvalues of the inverse dielectric matrix, X,, 
satisfy Xi<l. As a result, the electron-electron in- 
teraction (as determined by test charges) which en- 
ters BCS theory is not restricted to positive values 
by general stability requirements. Casella [130] 
considered other intermediate bosons, besides 
phonons, mediating the superconducting interac- 
tion and carried out a semiphenomenological anal- 
ysis of the effects of certain band-gap features on 
the gap ratios of high-temperature superconduc- 
tors. Comparison with experiment suggests that the 
intermediate boson is not a phonon. 
Melamud et al. [131] studied the near-neighbor 
environments and the bonding of atoms in lan- 
thanum and yttrium based copper-oxide super- 
conductors using Wigner-Seitz cell construction. 
Wigner-Seitz cells can identify the nearest neigh- 
168 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
300 
O 
o ■r-\ 
N 0 •r-{ 
-300 
.-je^" 
Bean Model 
Jco = 11.000 A/cm Y^^ 
Bcc =  1300 G 
6'    20O400 
^^    Field, Oe 
-4 -2 0 2 
Field, kOe 
Figure 25. Experimental (solid line) and calculated (dotted line) hysteresis loops for YBCO at 38 K. The 
insert is an expanded view of the virgin curve [121]. 
bors, the site symmetry arising from the presence 
of these neighbors, and the number of nearest 
neighbors common to a near-neighbor pair. Differ- 
ent results were obtained depending on whether 
ionic or covalent/metallic bonding is assumed. Co- 
valent/metallic bonding gave more reasonable 
chemical results and was consistent with known 
properties of these materials. The barium, lan- 
thanum, and yttrium atoms all had large coordina- 
tion numbers (see fig. 26) implying a three- 
dimensional chemical bonding scheme. The results 
are in agreement with the conclusion of Pauling 
[132] that the bonding at the important copper sites 
is not limited to oxygen but involves substantial in- 
teractions with large atoms such as lanthanum and 
barium. 
11.   Applications 
Problems with current density and fabrication 
have hindered many applications of high-tempera- 
ture superconductors. However, a successful pro- 
totype transition edge bolometer and a SQUID 
(superconducting quantum /nterference device) 
made from YBCO have been developed [133, 134]. 
The breaking fixture used to form the Josephson 
contact for the SQUID is shown in figure 27. Vari- 
ations in performance were found with different 
YBCO batches, and the first devices constructed 
showed considerable noise above 61 K, although 
quantum interference effects persisted up to 81 K. 
However, SQUIDs made from well-characterized, 
high-quality YBCO, operated in liquid nitrogen, 
with only a modest increase in noise over that 
found at 4 K. This provided the first demonstration 
that sensitive high-rc SQUIDs operating at liquid 
nitrogen temperature are possible. 
Many applications for high-temperature super- 
conductivity depend on understanding and im- 
proving the critical current. To this end, a YBCO 
macrobridge (bridge dimensions are much greater 
than the coherence length) was fabricated [135] to 
understand not only Jc, but intra-film Josephson 
effects. Extremely noisy sections of the V-I curve 
were observed, always well below To This behav- 
ior could have ramifications for potential low-noise 
applications of high-Fc superconductors. The noise 
depends on temperature, bias current, and the mag- 
netic field. A very rapid change of switching rate 
with very small fields and small changes in bias 
current was observed,  which suggests that the 
169 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Figure 26. The (0120806) Wigner-Seitz polyhedron (coordi- 
nation number=26) of the Ba, La or Y atom in the ideal ABO3 
perovskite structure, obtained with the use of metallic radii. In 
the high-temperature superconductors with distorted perovskite 
structure, the Wigner-Seitz cells for these sites are derivations 
from the ideal polyhedron [131]. 
|On 
spring 
Al holder 
YBCO 
pellet 
saw cut in 
pellet 
center hole 
0.95 mm dia. 
Figure 27. A SQUID made from a YBCO break junction. A 
YBCO pellet was secured with epoxy in an aluminum breaking 
fixture. A hole was drilled through the pellet and a saw cut 
made part way through so that the pellet would break along a 
diameter when the two arms of the fixture were spread apart by 
a thin tapered pin. Springs close the break as the taper is with- 
drawn [133]. 
noise may be due to the motion of vortices in and 
out of pinning sites. 
The ability of a superconductor to levitate a 
magnet above its surface is well known, and for 
high-rc superconductors it is often demonstrated. 
Recently, it has been reaUzed [136, 137] that spe- 
cially processed samples of a high-T'c superconduc- 
tor can be levitated below a magnet. This unusual 
type of levitation involves "attraction" of the su- 
perconductor by a magnet rather than the Meissner 
effect "repulsion" seen for a levitated magnet. An 
important application for this effect would be in 
magnetic bearings (see table 1). 
12.   Other High-temperature 
Superconductors 
Following the discovery of high-temperature su- 
perconductivity in Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O ceramics [138], 
Bi2Sr2CaCu20x was synthesized both chemically 
and by a solid state reaction [72]. ac susceptibility 
measurements showed transitions at 80 K and 
110 K and a low HQI- The appearance and amount 
of the 110 K superconductor was sensitive to the 
annealing procedure. Magnetic hysteresis loops 
constructed at 80 K were narrow, signifying a 
small amoimt of trapped flux. The loops were con- 
stricted in the center, indicating the probable exis- 
tence of time effects similar to those seen in YBCO 
[121]. The bismuth superconductor was also stud- 
ied by the magnetic-field-modulated-microwave- 
absorption (MAMMA) technique [65, 139]. Super- 
conducting transitions were observed at 72, 100, 
and llOK. An applied magnetic field broadened 
the microwave response peak much more than in 
the case of YBCO. Thin films of the bismuth super- 
conductor were made [140] by laser ablation on 
Zr02 and characterized by MAMMA. The film 
quality was affected by substrate temperature and 
an annealing process. Unlike previous work [141], 
the films were not superconducting as deposited. 
A classical test to determine the contribution of 
an electron-phonon interaction to the superconduc- 
tivity is to measure the isotope shift [3, 4] in TQ. 
Substitution of '*0 for '*0 in the Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O 
system [142], the La-Sr-Cu-O system [143, 144], 
and the Y-Ba-Cu-O system [145, 146] has demon- 
strated a measurable, albeit small, isotope shift in 
TQ. Although this small effect indicates that the 
electron-phonon interaction contributes to the su- 
perconductivity, it is probably too small to account 
for the high values of Tc, and other mechanisms. 
170 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
e.g., spin fluctuations must be operative. The possi- 
ble role of various magnetic interactions have re- 
cently been addressed at a workshop held at NIST, 
Gaithersburg [147]. 
Magnetic measurements were made [148, 149] on 
chemically synthesized Bi-Pb-Sr-Ca-Cu-O. The 
lead substitution appears to encourage or stabilize 
the high-T'c Bi phase. The superconductor dis- 
played extremely narrow hysteresis loops above 
liquid nitrogen temperatures, indicating a small 
number of effective flux pinning sites. Below 40 K, 
a dimpUng was observed but only when the sample 
was a loosely packed powder. A flux depinning 
was observed, as illustrated in figure 28, for two 
temperatures. A plot of the flux-depinning field vs 
temperature appears to be linear (fig. 29). 
-0.4 +- 
-1 -0.8 -0.6  -0.4 -0.2     0       0.2     0.4     0.6     0.1 
Applied Field, kOe 
Figure 28. Hysteresis loops at two temperatures for a Bi-Pb-Sr- 
Ca-Cu-O superconductor, illustrating flux depinning [148]. 
-1.6       -1.4       -1.2 
Ln(l-t) 
Figure 29. The flux-depinning field of the sample of figure 28 as 
a function of temperature [149]. 
Ultrasonic elastic-constant studies were carried 
out for Bi-Pb-Sr-Ca-Cu-O [150], with results simi- 
lar to YBCO. There was stiffening during cooling. 
no measurable change at Tc, and hysteresis. How- 
ever, the Bi-Cu-O is much softer than YBCO, with 
an elastic Debye temperature of 312 K vs 437 K. 
Resonant photoemission has been used to study 
[151] the electronic states and electron-electron in- 
teractions in a bulk sample of Tl-Ba-Ca-Cu-O. The 
electron structure is similar to that of YBCO indi- 
cating that the electron states and interactions are 
similar. The surface of the Tl superconductor is not 
as reactive toward atmospheric gases as YBCO. 
13.   Low-Temperature Superconductors 
Despite aU the current interest in high-tempera- 
ture superconductors, low-temperature supercon- 
ductors will still be required in many applications. 
For example, the cost savings realized by switching 
from helium to nitrogen for cooling large magnets 
may be only a small part of the total operating cost. 
Additionally, much experience has been gained in 
learning how to fabricate these materials into prac- 
tical conductors—in the shape of tapes or wires— 
that can support high current densities under realis- 
tic operating conditions. Therefore research on 
these materials is continuing, with the goal of opti- 
mizing their properties—e.g., current-carrying ca- 
pabilities stability, ac losses, etc. 
NIST is developing facilities and standards for 
the definition and measurement of superconductiv- 
ity parameters [152, 153]. The facilities developed 
for this project enable critical currents up to 3000 
A to be measured in fields up to 12 T in the pres- 
ence of longitudinal or transverse stress. NIST is 
also involved in round robins on critical current 
measurements of Nb-Ti and NbsSn with both do- 
m^tic and foreign participants. Calibration tech- 
niques developed for the Nb-Ti study were used in 
the NbsSn study. It was found that a small change 
in the mounting technique could result in a 40% 
change in the critical current density at 12 T. Man- 
drel material and geometry were also a source of 
error [154, 155]. 
The problem of current ripple on critical current 
measurement was studied [156, 157]. Ripple (the 
periodic departure from a dc output level) reduces 
the measured dc critical current, /c, and causes 
noise at the input to the voltmeter used for mea- 
surements. A theoretical model of rippling was de- 
veloped which was in good agreement with the 
experimental data and can be used to estimate the 
effects of current ripple on the measured dc /c- It 
was also found that the effect of ripple should scale 
with its fraction of the /c, and will depend upon the 
shape of the V-I curve. 
171 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
At present, the material of choice in the wind- 
ings for magnets is Nb-Ti. The effect of stress on 
current degradation has been studied by Ekin et al. 
Current degradation as a function of strand loca- 
tion and field angle on cable compacted into a key- 
stone shape was evaluated [158]. It was found that 
cabling can lead to localized reductions in IQ 
within a single strand. The widest spread in local /c 
along the cable strands was with the field perpen- 
dicular to the cable edge. Unfortunately, in the 
dipole magnet orientation, this orientation is near 
the critical orientation. The relevant IQ criteria 
may be a spatial average (the strand /c). Therefore, 
both magnetic-field orientations, perpendicular and 
parallel to the cable width, need to be tested for /c 
[159]. In addition, a large difference in current car- 
rying capacity can exist between thick and thin ca- 
ble edges, and thus, changing the direction of the 
test current can affect the measured IQ- 
As illustrated in figure 30, the effects of various 
types of stress on /c at 4 K also were studied [160]. 
It was found that /c degradation from transverse 
compression was much less than from axial tension 
in terms of overall conductor stress but comparable 
in terms of stress on NbTi filaments. More stress 
can be developed in axial tension than in transverse 
compression because of the matrix, /c is 95% re- 
versible for both stresses indicating that the effects 
of stress will be seen only when the conductor is 
under stress. The primary source of degradation is 
a stress-induced reversible decrease in Hc2- It was 
found [161] that the effect on the critical current is 
independent of the temperature at which the stress 
is applied. Existing data obtained at 4 K can there- 
fore be used to determine the degradation of Tc 
arising from room-temperature fabrication stress, 
cool-down stress, and 4 K stress due to the Lorentz 
force when the magnet is energized. Coupling 
losses in multifilamentary NbTi wire were studied 
[156] by vibrating sample magnetometry. Losses 
for wires with long twist lengths were up to twice 
the hysteresis losses. Using short twist lengths re- 
duced these losses. 
Non-uniformity of sample diameter (sausaging) 
of the filaments also degrades performance [152]. 
Sausaging causes a change in E-I response resulting 
in a significant electric field below Ic leading to 
heating and decreased stability. In the relationship 
E a r, the value of n is related to the degree of 
sausaging with smaller values of n implying more 
necking. Therefore, the value of n can be used to 
estimate filament regularity (fig. 31). 
TRANSVEHSe FORCE PEfl UNfT LENGTH, F/L(kN/m) 
0 wg aoo aoo «» 
1M 
OM 
T n 1 r MULTIFNJMENTAny Nbn 
.L 
MBH-«T 
i-^J 1 L _L 0 aoo 400 no 
TRANSVERSE COMPRESSKM. ai9AFii 
Figure 30. Effect of transverse compression force on the critical 
current of a NfaTi conductor [160]. 
L2 
1-0 
0.8 
I                1 
i^ - /^ nfi _ X     /I _ 
- ^•J/   // - 
0.4 - - 
— - 
0.2 /     V A 
0.1 /\     /  1/ 
0.85 0.90 0.95 
I/I. 
1,00 1.05 
Figure 31. Logarithmic plot of electric field vs current for Nb- 
Ti samples with different n [152]. 
Another low-temperature superconductor which 
can be used for magnet applications is NbsSn. A 
study of the effect of transverse stress on /Q degra- 
dation showed that the intrinsic effect on the upper 
critical field is about 10 times that of axial stress 
[162, 163]. This effect scales with conductor thick- 
ness and as a result places limits on conductor di- 
mensions and the spacing between distributed 
reinforcements m large magnets. This is important 
in applications calling for larger conductors needed 
to limit inductance and keep induced quench 
voltages low in large magnet applications. Stress 
concentration at strand crossover points can signif- 
icantly enhance the effects. This effect is re- 
versible, but not totally. Hysteresis losses were 
172 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
measured [156] on a series of fine filament NbjSn 
superconductors made by the internal tin process. 
Hysteresis was measured as a function of filament 
diameter and interfilament separation. Losses were 
greater than predicted. This was due to interfila- 
ment bridging across the wires. The critical inter- 
filament separation, for which the critical-state 
model would be accurate, was determined. 
The cable matrix can also play a role in improv- 
ing performance. The addition of manganese to a 
copper matrix of fine filament Nb-Ti wire was in- 
vestigated by Goldfarb et al. [164]. Manganese ad- 
ditions had been shown to reduce proximity-effect 
coupling between closely-spaced filaments [165, 
166]. The investigation found that as long as the 
manganese content was less than 4%, there were 
no adverse effects. 
NIST has developed a wide variety of applica- 
tions of superconductor electronics (which will be 
the subject of a future review). The most successful 
devices that NIST researchers have produced are 
array voltage standards (see fig. 32) containing as 
many as 19,000 Josephson junctions [167]. Such in- 
tegrated circuits made at NIST using VLSI tech- 
nique are already in use in most national standards 
laboratories around the world and in two U.S. 
companies. Other devices made at NIST are ultra- 
high-speed analog-to-digital converters, supercon- 
ductor-insulator-superconductor mixers for radio 
astronomy at frequencies up to 300 GHz, SQUIDs 
with sensitivities approaching the uncertainty prin- 
ciple hmit, samplers with response times of less 
than 10 ps, counters with rates above 100 GHz and 
sensitivity to pulses of 10"'* J, and an ultra-sensi- 
tive microwave and infrared detector based on the 
kinetic inductance of very thin superconducting 
films. 
14.   Conclusion 
This review paper has attempted to show the 
breadth of NIST's work in superconductivity. Ma- 
jor contributions to the materials science, standard- 
ization, and engineering applications of super- 
conductors are evident. To maintain a reasonable 
length, many topics have not been covered in the 
depth they deserve. Some of these, e.g., supercon- 
ductive electronics, will be the subjects of future 
review articles. With all the world-wide attention 
on the new high-temperature superconductors and 
their potential economic impact, we can anticipate 
that NIST personnel will continue to make new 
and important contributions to this exciting field. 
SEflieS ARRAY 
CAPACITIVE COUPLER 
FINLINE 
RESISTIVE TERMINATION 
-19 tnm- 
Figure 32. The layout for a Josephson junction array voltage standard chip fabricated 
using a seven-level photolithographic process [167]. 
173 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
15.   Acknowledgements 
We thank R. Powell for his aid in providing 
timely information on the NIST publications. R. A. 
Kamper, H. P. R. Frederikse, and K. Moorjani fur- 
nished extensive comments which have been incor- 
porated in the manuscript. We are grateful to many 
of the referenced NIST authors for their aid in re- 
ducing our errors and omissions. 
About the authors: All three authors are with the 
Magnetic Materials Group of the Metallurgy Divi- 
sion, Institute for Materials Science and Engineering, 
NIST, Gaithersburg. Donald R. Lundy is a Guest 
Scientist. Lydon J. Swartzendniber is a Research 
Metallurgist. Lawrence H. Bennett is a Physicist and 
the Group Leader. 
16.   References 
* Papers authored or co-authored by NIST scientists. 
*[1] Silsbee. F. B., J. Wash. Acad. Sci. 6, 597 (1916). 
[2] Meissner, W., and Oschenfeld, R., Naturwissenschaften 
21, 787 (1933). 
*[3] Maxwell, E., Phys. Rev. 78, 477 (1950). 
[4] Reynolds, C. A., Serin, B., "Wright, W. H., and Nesbitt, 
L. B., Phys. Rev. 78, 487 (1950). 
[5] Josephson, B. D., Phys Lett. 1, 251 (1962); Rev. Mod. 
Phys. 36, 216 (1964); Adv. Phys. 14, 419 (1965). 
[6] Bednorz,  J.   G.,   and  Muller,   K.   A.,   Z.   Phys.   B- 
Condensed Matter 64, 189 (1986); Muller, K. A., and 
Bednorz, J. G., Science 237, 1133 (1987). 
[7] Cohen, M. L., Phys. Rev. 134, A442 (1964). 
[8] Bardeen, J., Cooper, L. N., and Schrieffer, J. R., Phys. 
Rev., 108, 1175  (1975). 
*[9] Kahn, A. H., and Leyendecker, A. J., Phys. Rev., 135, 
A1321 (1964). 
*[10] Frederikse, H. P. R., Thurber, W. R., and Hosier, W. R., 
Phys. Rev. 134, A442 (1964). 
•[II] Schooley, J. F., Hosier, W. R., and Cohen, M. L., Phys. 
Rev. Lett. 12, 474 (1964). 
•[12] Ambler, E., Colwell, J. H., Hosier, W. R., and Schooley, 
J. F., Phys, Rev. 148, 280 (1966). 
*[13] Frederikse, H. P. R., Schooley, J. F., Thurber, W. R., 
Pfeiffer, E., and Hosier, W. R., Phys. Rev. 16, 579 
(1966). 
[14] Michel, C, Er-Rakho, L., and Raveau, B., Mater. Res. 
Bull. 20, 667 (1985). 
[15] Tagaki, H., Uchida, S., Kitazawa, K., and Tanaka, T., 
Japn. J. Appl. Phys. 26, L123 (1987). 
[16] Wu, M. K.,   Ashburn, J. R., Tomg, C. J., Hor, P. H., 
Meng, R. L., Gao, L., Huang, Z. J., Wang, Y. Q., and 
Chu, C. W., Phys. Rev. Lett. 58, 908 (1987). 
[17] Ginley, D. S., Kwak, J. F., Hellmer, R. P., Baughman, 
R. J., Venturini, E. L., and Morosin, B., Appl. Phys. 
Lett. 53, 406 (1988). 
[18] Cava, R. J., Batlogg, B., vanDover, R. B., Murphy, D. 
W., Sunshine, S., Siegrist, T., Remeika, J. P., Reitman, 
E. A., Zahurak, S., and Espinosa, G. P., Phys. Rev. Lett. 
58, 1676 (1987). 
•[19] Beech, F., Miraglia, S., Santoro, A., and Roth, R. S., 
Phys. Rev. B 35, 8778 (1987). 
*[20] Santoro, A., Miraglia, S., and Beech, F., Sunshine, S. A., 
Murphy, D. W., Schneemeyer, L. F., and Waszczak, J. 
W., Mater. Res. Bull. 22, 1007 (1987). 
•[21] Rhyne, J. J., Neumann, D. A., Gotaas, J. A., Beech, F., 
Toth, L., Lawrence, S., Wolf, S., Osofsky, M., and 
Gubser, D. U., Phys. Rev. B 36, 2294 (1987). 
*[22] Miraglia, S., Beech, F., Santoro, A., Tran Qui, D., 
Sunshine, S. A., and Murphy, D. W., Mater. Res. Bull. 
22, 1733 (1987). 
•[23] Cava, R. J., Santoro, A., Johnson, D. W., Jr., and 
Rhodes, W. W., Phys. Rev. B 35, 6716 (1987). 
•[24] Xiao, G., Cieplak, M. Z., Musser, D., Gavrin, A., Streitz, 
F. H., Chien, C. L., Rhyne, J. J., and Gotaas, J. A., 
Nature 332, 238 (1988). 
•[25] Miceli, P. F., Tarascon, J. M., Greene, L. H., Barboux, 
P.,   Griroud,   M.,   Neumann,   D.   A.,   Rhyne,  J.   J., 
Schneemeyer, L. F., and Waszczak, J. V., Phys. Rev. B 
38, 9209 (1988). 
•[26] Rubinstein, M., Harford, M. Z., Swartzendniber, L. J., 
and Bennett, L. H., J. Phys., Suppl., in press (1988). 
*[27] Swartzendniber, L. J., Bennett, L. H., Harford, M. Z., 
and Rubinstein, M., J. Superconductivity 1, 219 (1988). 
•[28] Roth, R. S., Davis, K. L., and Dennis, J. R., Advanced 
Ceramic Mater.: Ceramic Superconductors, Vol. 2, 303 
(1987). 
[29] Frase, K. G., and Clarke, D. R., Adv. Cer. Mat. 8, (313) 
295 (1987). 
[30]   Wang, G., Hwu, S. J., Song, S. N., Ketteson, J. B., 
Marks, L. D., Poeppelmeir, K. R., and Mason, T. O., 
Adv. Cer. Mat 2(3B), 313 (1987). 
•[31] Wong-Ng,   W.,   McMurdie,   H.   F.,   Paretzkin,   B., 
Hubbard, C. R., Dragoo, A. L., and Stewart, J. M., 
Powder Diffraction 2, 106 (1987). 
*[32] Wong-Ng, W., McMurdie, H. F., Paretzkin, B., Zhang, 
Y., Davis, K. L., Hubbard, C. R., Dragoo, A. L., and 
Stewart, J. M., Powder Diffraction 3, (1987). 
•[33] Wong-Ng, W., Roth, R. S., Beech, F., and Davis, K. L., 
submitted to Advances in X-Ray Analysis. 
•[34] Wong-Ng, W., Kuchmski, M. A., McMurdie, H. F., and 
Paretzkin, B., submitted to Powder Diffraction. 
•[35] Wong-Ng,   W.,   McMurdie,   H.   F.,   Paretzkin,   B., 
Kuchinski, M. A., and Dragoo, A. L., Powder Diffrac- 
tion, to be published. 
•[36] Wong-Ng, W., Davis, K. L., and Roth, R. S., J. Amer. 
Ceramic Soc. 71, C64 (1987). 
•[37] Roth, R. S., Rawn, C. J., Beech, F., Whitler, J. D., and 
Anderson, J. O., in Ceramic Superconductors H, Yan, 
M. F., Ed. (Am. Ceramic Soc, Westerville, OH, 1988) 
p. 13. 
•[38] Roth, R. S., Rawn, C. J., Ritter, J. J., and Burton, B., 
submitted to the Journal of the American Ceramic Soci- 
ety, Communications. 
•[39] Roth, R. S., Rawn, C. J., Whitler, J. D., Chiang, C. K., 
and Wong-Ng, W., submitted to the Journal of the 
American Ceramic Society. 
•[40] Wong-Ng, W., and Cook, L. P., Advanced Ceramic 
Mater.: Ceramic Superconductors 2, 624 (1987). 
*[41] Wong-Ng,   W.,   Cook,   L,   P.,   Chiang,    C.   K., 
Swartzendruber, L. J., Bennett, L. H., Blendell, J., and 
Minor, D., J. Mater. Res. 3, 832 (1988). 
174 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
•[42] Cook, L. P., Chiang, C. K., Wong-Ng, W., and Blendell, 
J., Advanced Ceramic Mater.: Ceramic Superconduc- 
tors 2, 656 (1987). 
*[43] Chiang, C. K., Cook, L. P., Chang, S. S., Blendell, J. E., 
and Roth, R. S., Advanced Ceramic Mater.: Ceramic 
Superconductors 2, 530 (1987). 
*[44] Chiang, C. K., Cook, L. P., and Chang, S. S., submitted 
to the Proceedings of the Materials Research Society 
Symposium with the Japanese Materials Research 
Society. 
*[45] Blendell, J. E., Handwerker, C, Vaudin, M. D., and 
Fuller, E. R., Jr., J. Crystal Growth 89, 93 (1988). 
*[46] Wong-Ng, W., Cook, L. P., Chiang, C. K., 
Swartzendruber, L. J., and Bennett, L. H., Adv. Cer. 
Materials, in press (1988). 
*[47] Wong-Ng, W., Roth, R. S., Swartzendruber, L. J., Ben- 
nett, L. H., Chiang, C. K., Beech, F., and Hubbard, C. 
R., Advanced Ceramic Mater.: Ceramic Superconduc- 
tors 2, 565 (1987). 
*[48] Zhang, Y., Wong-Ng, W., Morosin, B., Hubbard, C. R., 
Stewart, J. M., and Freiman, S. W., Physica C 152, 130 
(1988). 
*[49] Ostertag, C. P., Beech, F., and Fuller, E. R., Jr., m Ce- 
ramic Powder Science Jl, Messing, G. L., Fuller, E. R., 
Jr. and Hausner, H., Eds. (Amer. Ceramic Soc, Wester- 
ville, OH, 1988) p.501. 
*[50] Ritter, J. J., in Ceramic Powder Science II, Messing, G. 
L., Fuller, E. R., Jr. and Hausner, H., Eds. (Amer. Ce- 
ramic Soc, Westerville, OH, 1988) p.79. 
•[51] Moorjani, K., Bohandy, J., Adrian, F. J., Kim, B. F., 
Shull, R. D., Chiang, C. K., Swartzendruber, L. J., and 
Bennett, L. H., Phys. Rev. B 36, 4036 (1987). 
•[52] Ono, R. H., Beall, J. A., Cromar, M. W., Mankiewich, 
P. M., and Howard, R. W., Proc. of 1988 Applied Super- 
conductivity Conf., to be published in IEEE Trans. 
Magnetics. 
•[53] Liadstrom, R. M., Trans. Amer. Nuclear Soc. 56, 231 
(1988). 
•[54] Goldfarb, R. B., Clark, A. P., Panson, A. J., and 
Braginski, A. I., Materials Research Society, Vol. EA- 
11,261 (1987). 
•[55] Goldfarb, R. B., Clark, A. P., Braginski, A. I., and 
Panson, A. J., Cryogenics 27, 475 (1987). 
•[56] Chen, D.-X., Goldfarb, R. B., Nogues, J., and Rao, K. 
v., J. Appl. Phys. 63, 980 (1988). 
•[57] Blendell, J. E., Chiang, C. K., Cranmer, D. C, Freiman, 
S. W., Fuller, E. R., Jr., Drescher-Krasicka, E., Johnson, 
W. L., Ledbetter, H. M., Bennett, L. H., Swartzendru- 
ber, L. J., Marinenko, R. B., Myklebust, R. L., Bright, 
D. S., and Newbury, D. E., Advanced Ceramic Mater.: 
Ceramic Superconductors 2, 512 (1987). 
*[58] Blendell, J. E., Chiang, C. K., Cranmer, D. C, Freiman, 
S. W., Fuller, E. R., Jr., Drescher-Krasicka, E., Johnson, 
W. L., Ledbetter, H. M., Bennett, L. H., Swartzendru- 
ber, L. J., Marinenko, R. B., Myklebust, R. L., Bright, 
D. S., and Newbury, D. E., Chemistry of High Temper- 
ature Superconductors, Amer. Chem. Soc. Symp. 351, 
240 (1987). 
•[59] Marinenko, R. B., Newbury, D. E., Bright, D. S., 
Myklebust, R. L., and Blendell, J. E., Microbeam Analy- 
sis—1988, Newbury, D. E., Ed. (San Francisco Press, 
1988) p. 37. 
•[60] Etz, E. S., Wong-Ng, W., BlendeU, J. E., and Chiang, 
C. K., in Microbeam Analysis 1988, Newbury, D. E., 
Ed. (San Francisco Press, San Francisco, CA 1988) 
p. 187. 
•[61] Melmed, A. J., Shull, R. D., Chiang, C. K., and Fowler, 
H. A., Science 239, 176 (1988). 
•[62] Melmed, A. J., Shull, R. D., Chiang, C. K., and Fowler, 
H. A., Mater. Sci. Eng. 100, L27 (1988). 
•[63] Melmed, A. J., Shull, R. D., Chiang, C. K., and Fowler, 
H. A., J. Appl. Phys. 63, 4232 (1988). 
•[64] Melmed, A. J., ShuU. R. D., and Chiang, C. K., J. Phys., 
in press (1988). 
•[65] Bohandy, J., Adrian, F. J., Kim, B. F., Moorjani, K., 
Shull, R. D., Swartzendruber, L. J., Bennett, L. H., and 
Wallace, J. S., J. Superconductivity 1, 191 (198«). 
•[66] Blendell, J. E., and Steams, L. C, in Ceramic Powder 
Science II, Messing, G. L., Fuller, E. R., Jr. and 
Hausner, H., Eds. (Amer. Ceramic Soc., Westerville, 
OH, 1988) p. 1146. 
•[67] Steams,L. C, Vaudin, M. D., Ostertag, C. P., Blendell, 
J. L., and Fuller, E. R., Jr., to be published in the Pro- 
ceedings of the Superconductor Sjfmposium, 90th An- 
nual Meeting of the American Ceramic Society. 
•[68] Ostertag, C. P., Shull, R. D., Vaudm, M. D., Blendell, J. 
E., Steams, L. C, and Fuller, E. R., Jr., in Ceramic Su- 
perconductors II, Yan, M. F., Ed. (Amer. Ceramic Soc, 
Westerville, OH, 1988) p. 332. 
•[69] Ekin, J. W., Panson, A. J., Blankenship, B. A., Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 52, 331 (1988). 
•[70] Ekin, J. W., Larson, T. M., Bergren, N. F., Nelson, A. J., 
Swartzlander, A. B., Kazmerski, L. L., Panson, A. J., 
and Blankenship, B. A., Appl. Phys. Lett. 52, 1819 
(1988). 
•[71] Ekin, J. W., Panson, A. J., and Blankenship, B. A., in 
High Temperature Superconductors, Brodsky, M. B., 
Tuller, H. L., Dynes, R. C, and Kitazawa, K., Eds. (Ma- 
terials Research Society Symposium Proceedings, Pitts- 
burgh, Pa., 1988) Vol. 99. 
*[72] Wallace, J. S., Ritter, J. J., Fuller, E. R., Jr., Bennett, 
L. H., Shull, R. D., and Swartzendruber, L. J., Phys. 
Rev. B. in press. 
•[73] Moreland, J., and Goodrich, L. F., Proceedings of the 
Applied Superconductivity Conference, IEEE Transac- 
tions on Magnetics, in press. 
•[74] Moreland, J., and Ekin, W. J., J. Appl. Phys. 58, 3888 
(1985). 
•[75] Moreland, J., Clark, A. F., Ku, H. C, and Shelton, R. 
N„ Cryogenics 27, 227 (1987). 
•[76] Moreland, J., Clark, A. F., Goodrich, L. F., Ku, H. C, 
and Shelton, R. N., Phys. Rev. B 35, 8711 (1987). 
•[77] Moreland, J., Ekin, J. W., Goodrich, L. F., Capobianco, 
T. E., and Clark, A. F., Materials Research Society, Vol. 
EA-11,73(1987). 
•[78] Moreland, J., Ekin, J. W., Goodrich, L. F., Capobianco, 
T. E., Clark, A. F., Kwo, J., Hong, M., and Liou, S. H., 
Phys. Rev. B 35. 8856 (1987). 
•[79] Moreland, J., Goodrich, L. F., Ekin, J. W., Capobianco, 
T. E., Clark, A. F., Braginski, A. I., and Panson, A. J., 
Appl. Phys. Lett. 51, 540 (1987). 
•[80] Moreland, J., Goodrich, L. F., Ekin, J. W., Capobianco, 
T. E., and Clark, A. F., Japanese J. Appl. Phys. 26, Sup- 
plement No. 26-3, 999 (1987). 
•[81] Moreland,  J.,  Clark,  A.  F.,  Damento,  M.  A.,  and 
Gschneider, K. A., Jr., Proc. Intern. Conf on High 
Temperature   Superconductivity   Interlaken,   Switzer- 
land, (1988) p. 1383. 
[82] Zeller, H. R., and Giaver, I., Phys. Rev. 181, 789 (1969). 
[83] Kapailtulnik, A., APS March Meeting 1987. 
175 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
*[84] Moreland, J., Goodrich, L. R, Ekin, J. W., Capobianco, '[lOS] 
T. E., and Clark, A. F., Adv. Cryogenic Eng. 34, 625 
(1988), *[109] 
*[85] Moreland, J., Beall, J. A., One, R. H., and Clark, A. F., 
Materials Research Society, EA-14, 351 (1987). •[110] 
*[86] Moreland, J., Alexander, S., Cox, M., Sonnenfeld, R., 
and Hansen, P. K„ Appl. Phys. Lett. 43, 387 (1983). 
[87] Geballe, T. H., in Novel Superconductivity (Plenum, [111] 
N.Y. 1987) p. 1108. 
*[88] Kurtz, R. L.. AIP Proc. 165, Amer. Vac. Soc. Series 3: 
Thin Film Processing and Characteristics of High-7c [112] 
Superconductors, Harper, J. M. E., Colton, R. J., Feld- *[1I3] 
man, L. C, Eds., NY (1988) p. 223. 
*[89] Kurtz, R. L., Stockbauer, R. L., Mueller, D., Shih, A., 
Toth, L. E., Osofsky, M., and Wolf, S. A., Phys. Rev. B '[114] 
35, 8818 (1987). 
•[90] Tsang, K.-L., Zhang, C. H., Callcott, T. A., Canfield, L. •[! 15] 
R., Ederer, D. L., Blendell, J. E., Clark, C. W., 
Wassdahl, N., Rubensson, J. E., Bray, G., Mortensson, 
N., Nordgren, J., Nyholm, R., and Cramm, S., Phys. 
Rev. B 37. 2293 (1988). [116] 
*[91] Kurtz, R. L., Robey, S. W., Stockbauer, R. L., Mueller, '[in] 
D., Shih, A., and Toth, L., submitted to Phys. Rev. B. 
*[92] Kurtz, R. L., Robey, S. W., Stockbauer, R. L., Mueller, '[118] 
D., Shih, A., Toth, L., Singh, A. K., and Osofsky, M., to 
be published in Vacuum as part of the Proceedings of 1st 
Iberian Vacuum Meeting. *[119] 
•[93] Kurtz, R. L., Stockbauer, R., Madey, T. £., Mueller, D., 
Shih, A., and Toth, L. E., Phys. Rev. B 37, 7936 (1988). '[nO] 
•[94] Mueller, D., Shih, A., Toth, L. E., Osofsky, M., Wolf, S. 
A„ Kurtz, R. L., and Stockbauer, R, L., Phys. Rev. B 37, 
7936 (1988). *[121] 
*[95] Moreland, J., Li, Y„ Folsom, R., and Capobianco, T. E., 
Rev. Sci. Instruments, in press. 
•[96] Moreland, J., Li, Y., Folsom, R. M., and Capobianco, [122] 
T. E., to be published in the Proceedings of the Applied [123] 
Superconductivity Conference, IEEE Transactions on [124] 
Magnetics. 
•[97] Ekin, J. W., Panson, A. J., Braginski, A. L, Janocko, M. [125] 
A., Hong, M., Kwo, J., Liou, S. H., Capone, D. W., 11, [126] 
and Flandermeyer, B., Materials Research Soc, Vol. ^[127] 
EA-11, 223(1987). 
•[98] Ekin, J.W., Advanced Ceramic Mater.: Ceramic Super- •[128] 
conductors 2, 586 (1987). •[129] 
[99] Dinger, T. R., Wothington, T. K., Gallagher, W. J., and 
Sandstrom, R. L., Phys. Rev. Lett. 58, 2687 (1987). •[130] 
*[100] Ekin, J. W., Braginski, A. I., Panson, A. J., Janocko, M. •[131] 
A., Capone, D. W., II, Zaluzec, N. J., Flandermeyer, B,, 
de Lima, O. P., Hong, M., Kwo, X, and Liou, S. H., J. [132] 
Appl. Phys. 62, 4821 (1987). *[133] 
•[101] Peterson, R. L., and Ekin, J. W., Phys. Rev. B 37, 9848 
(1988). *I134] 
*[102] Peterson, R. L., and Ekin, J. W., Physica C (to be pub- 
lished). 
»[103] Ekin, J. W., Peterson, R. L., and Bray, S. L., Materials *[135] 
Research Society International Meeting on Advanced 
Materials, Tokyo, Japan, May 30-June 3, 1988. 
•[104] Ledbetter, H., J. Metals 40, 24 (1988). ^[136] 
•[105] Ledbetter, H. M., Austin, M. W., Kim, S. A., and Lei, 
M., J. Mater. Res. 2, 786 (1987). 
*[106] Ledbetter, H. M., Proc. MRS Int. Meeting on Advanced *[137] 
Mater. (Tokyo, June 1988). 
•[107] Ledbetter, H. M., Austin, M. W., Kim, S. A., Datta, T., 
Violet, C. E., J. Mater. Res. 2, 790 (1987). 
Ledbetter, H. M., Kim, S. A., Datta, T., Estrada, J., and 
Violet, C. E., submitted to Phys. Rev. B. 
Ledbetter, H. M., Kim, S. A., Datta, T., Estrada, J„ and 
Violet, C. E., submitted to Physica C. 
Ledbetter, H. M., Kim, S. A., and Capone, D. W., in 
High-Temperature Superconductors 11 (Materials Re- 
search Society Symposium Series, 1988) p. 293. 
Bishop, B. J., Ramirez, A. P., Gammel, P. L., Batlogg, 
B., Reitman, E. A., Cava, R. J., and Millis, R. J., Phys. 
Rev. B 36, 2408 (1987). 
Geballe. T. H., and Huhn, J. K,, Science 239, 367 (1988). 
Ledbetter, H. M., Kim, S. A., and Lei, M., in Cryogenic 
Materials 1988 (Int. Cryog. Mater. Conf., Boulder, CO, 
1988). 
Datta, T., Ledbetter. H. M.. Violet, C. E., Almasan, C, 
and Estrada, J., Phys. Rev. B 37, 7502 (1988). 
Violet, C. E., Datta, T., Ledbetter, H. M., Almasan, C, 
and Estrada, J., in High Temperature Superconductors 
(Materials Research Society Symposium Series) 99, 375 
(1988). 
Testardi, L. R., Rev. Mod. Phys. 47, 637 (1975). 
Ledbetter, H. M., and Kim, S. A., Phys. Rev. B 38, 
11857(1988). 
Block, S., Piermarini, G. J., Munro, R. G., and 
Wong-Ng, W., Advanced Ceramic Mater.: Ceramic Su- 
perconductors, 2, 601 (1987). 
Ledbetter, H. M., and Lei, M,, to be published; Ledbet- 
ter, H. M., to be published. 
Drescher-Krasicka, E.. Johnson, W. L., Blendell, J. E., 
Chiang, C. K., and Wadley, H. N. G.. submitted to Phys- 
ical Review Letters. 
Atzmony, U., ShuU, R. D., Chiang, C. K., Swartzendru- 
ber, L. J., Bennett, L. H.. and Watson, R. E., J. Appl. 
Phys. 63, 4179 (1988). 
Bean, C. P., Rev. Mod. Phys. 361, 39 (1964). 
Bean, C. P., Phys. Rev. Lett. 8, 250 (1962). 
Kim, Y. B., Hempstead, C. F., and Stmad, A. R., Phys. 
Rev. Lett. 9, 306 (1962). 
London, H., Phys. Lett. 6, 162 (1963). 
Kamper, R. A., Phys. Lett. 2, 290 (1962). 
Peterson, R. L., submitted to Physics Letters A, May 11, 
1988. 
Chen, D,-X., and Goldfarb, R. B., to be published. 
Allen, P. B., Cohen, M. L., and Penn, D. R., Phys. Rev. 
B. 38, 2513(1988). 
Casella, R. C, Nuovo Cimento lOD, 1439 (1988). 
Melamud, M., Bennett, L. H., and Watson, R. E., Phys. 
Rev. B 38, 4624 (1988). 
Pauling, L., Phys. Rev. Lett. 59, 225 (1987). 
Zimmerman, J. E., Beall, J. A,, Cromar, M. W., and 
Ono, R. H., Appl. Phys. Lett. 51, 617 (1987). 
Zimmerman, J. E., Beall, J. A., Cromar, M. W., and 
Ono. R. H., Japn. J. Appl. Phys. 26, Suppl. 26-3, 2125 
(1987). 
Ono, R. H., Beall, J. A., Cromar, M. W., Mankiewich, P. 
M., Howard, R. W., and Skocpol, W., IEEE Trans, on 
Magnetics, MAG-25 (1989). 
Huang, C. Y., Shapira, Y., McNiff, E. J.. Jr., Peters, P. 
N., Schwartz, B. B., Wu, M, K., ShuU, R. D., and 
Chiang, C. K., Mod. Phys. Lett. B2, 869 (1988). 
ShuU, R. D.. Swartzendruber, L. J., Chiang, C. K., Wu, 
M. K., Peters, P. N,, and Huang, C. Y,, in High-re Su- 
perconductors: Magnetic Interactions, World Scientific 
PubUshing Co. (1988). 
176 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
[138] Cava, R. J., Batlogg, B., van Dover, R. B., Murphy, D. 
W., Sunshine, S., Siegrist, T., Remeika, J. P., Reitman, 
E. A., Zahurak, S., and Espinosa, G. P., Phys. Rev. Lett. 
58, 1676 (1987). 
*[139] Adrian, F. J., Bohandy, J., Kim, B. F., Moorjani, K., 
Shull, R. D., Swartzendruber, L. J., and Bennett, L. H., 
Physica C 156, 184 (1988). 
*[140] Kim, B. F., Phillips, T. E., Green, W. J., Agostinelli, E., 
Adrian, F. J., Moorjani, K., Swartzendruber, L. J., 
Shull, R. D., Bennett, L. H., and Wallace, J. S., Appl. 
Phys. Lett., 53, 321 (1988). 
*[141] Moorjani, K., Bohandy, J., Adrian, F. J., Kim, B. F., 
Atzmony, U., Shull, R. D., Chiang, C. K., 
Swartzendruber, L. J., and Bennett, L. H., J. Appl. Phys. 
63, 4199 (1988). 
*[142] Katayama-Yoshida, H., Hirooka, T., Oyamada, A., Ok- 
abe, Y., Takahashi, T., Sasaki, T., Ochiai, A., Suzuki, T., 
Mascarenhas, A. J., Pankove, J. I., Ciszek, T. F., Deb, S. 
K., Goldfarb, R. B., and Li, Y., Physica C 156, 481 
(1988). 
[143] Batlogg, B., Kourouklis, G., Weber, W., Cava, R. J., 
Jayaraman, A., White, A. E., Short, K. T., Rupp, L. W., 
and Rietman, E. A., Phys. Rev. Lett. 59, 912 (1987). 
[144] Faltens, T. A., Ham, W. K., Keller, S. W., Leary, K. J., 
Michaels, J. N., Stacy, A. M., zur Loye, H. C, Barbee, 
T. W., Ill, Bourne, L. C, Cohen, M. L., Hoen, S., and 
Zettl, A., Phys. Rev. Lett. 59, 915 (1987). 
[145] Leary, K. J., zur Loye, H. C, Keller. S. W., Faltens, T. 
A., Ham, W. K., Michaels, J. N., and Stacy, A. M., Phys. 
Rev. Lett. 59, 1236 (1987). 
[146] Morris, D. E., Kuroda, R. M., Marketz, A. G., Nickel, J. 
H., and Wei, J. Y. T., Phys. Rev. B 37, 5936 (1988). 
*[I47] High-Tc Superconductors: Magnetic Interactions, Ben- 
nett, L. H., Vezzoli, G., and Flom, Y., Eds. (World Sci- 
entific Publishing Co., Teaneck, NJ, 1989). 
*[148] Lundy, D. R., Ritter, J., Swartzendruber, L. J., Shull, R. 
D., and Bennett, L. H., J. Superconductivity in press, 
1989. 
*[149] Lundy, D. R., Ritter, J., Swartzendruber, L. J., Shull, R. 
D., and Bennett, L. H., in High-Tc Superconductors: 
Magnetic Interactions, (World Scientific Publishing Co., 
Teaneck, NJ, 1989). 
*[150] Ledbetter, H. M., Kim, S. A., Goldfarb, R. B., and 
Togano, K., to be published. 
*[15I] Stockbauer, R. L., Robey, S. W., Kurtz, R. L., Mueller, 
D., Shih, A., Singh, A. K., Toth, L., and Osofsky, M., 
AIP Conference Proceedings of AVS Topical Confer- 
ence on Thin Film Processing and Characterization of 
High-Temperature Superconductors, Atlanta, Georgia 
(October, 1988). 
*[152] Ekin, J. W., Cryogenics 1987 27, 603 (1987). 
*[153] Bray, S. L., Goodrich, L. F., Dube, W. P., submitted to 
RSI, May 12, 1988. 
*[154] Goodrich, L. F., and Bray, S. L., submitted to Cryogen- 
ics, July 7, 1988. 
*[155] Goodrich, L. F., Bray, S. L., and Stauffer, T. C, Pro- 
ceedings of the Applied Superconductivity Conference, 
IEEE Transactions on Magnetics. 
*[156] NBSIR 88-3088, Goodrich, L. F., Editor, published by 
the National Bureau of Standards, 75 pages (1988). 
*[157] Goodrich, L. F., Bray, S. L., and Clark, A. F., Advances 
in Cryogenic Engineering Mater. 34, 1019 (1988). 
•[158] Goodrich, L. F., Pittman, E. S., Ekm, J. W., and Scan- 
Ian, R. M., IEEE Trans, on Magnetics, MAG-23, 1642 
(1987). 
*[159] Goodrich, L. F., and Bray, L. S., to be published in the 
Proceedings of the Applied Superconductivity Confer- 
ence, IEEE Transactions on Magnetics. 
*[160] Ekin, J. W., IEEE Trans, on Magnetics, MAG-23, 1634 
(1987). 
*[161] Bray, S. L., and Ekin, J. W., Journal of Applied Physics, 
in press. 
*[162] Ekin, J. W., Advances in Cryogenic Engineering Mater. 
34, 547 (1988). 
*[163] Ekin, J. W., J. Appl. Phys. 62, 4829 (1987). 
*[164] Goldfarb, R.  B.,  Ried, D.  L.,  Kreilick, T.  S., and 
Gregory, E., to be submitted to Applied Superconduc- 
tivity Conference—1988 for publication in IEEE Trans- 
actions on Magnetics. 
[165] CoUings, E. W., Adv.  Cryoeng. (Materials) 34,  817 
(1988) 
[166] Kreilick, T. S., Gregory, E., Wong, J., Scanlan, R. M., 
Ghosh, A. K., Sampson, W. B., and Collings, E. W., 
Adv. Cryoeng. (Materials) 34, 895 (1988). 
*[167] Lloyd, F. L., Hamilton, C. A., Beall, J. A., Go, D., Ono, 
R. H., and Harris, R. E., IEEE Electron Device Letters, 
EDL-8, 449 (1987). 
The following additional papers authored or co-authored by 
NIST personnel were not received in time for inclusion in the 
Moreland, J., Ono, R. H., Beall, J. A., Madden, M., and Nelson, 
A. J., submitted to Applied Physics Letters. 
Chaillout, C, Santoro, A., Remeika, J. P., Cooper, S. A., 
Espinosa, G. P., and Marezio, M., Solid State Communica- 
tions 65, 1363 (1988). 
Bordet, P., Hodeau, J. L., Strobel, P., Marezio, M., and Santoro, 
A., Solid State Communications 66, 435 (1988). 
Chang, K. J., Cohen, M. L., and Penn, D. R., Phys. Rev. B 38, 
8691 (1988). 
Goldfarb, R. B., Cizek, T. F., and Evans, C. D., J. Appl. Phys. 
64, 5914 (1988). 
NDcolo, M., and Goldfarb, R. B., submitted for publication. 
Moreland, J., Goodrich, L. F., Ekin, J. W., Capabianco, T. E., 
and Clark, A. F., National Institute of Standards and Tech- 
nology, NISTIR 88-3090 (May 1988). 
Zhang, C. H., Callcott, T. A., Tsang, K.-L., Ederer, D. L., 
Blendell, J. E., Clark, C. W., Scimeca, T., and Liu, 
Y.-W., Phys. Rev. B (March 1, 1989). 
Callcott, T. A., Tsang, K.-L., Zhang, C. H., Ederer, D. L., 
Clark, C. W., Wassdahl, N., Rubensson, J. E., Bray, G., 
Mortensson, N., Nordgren, J., Nyholm, R., and Cramm, S., 
Extended Abstracts, High-Temperature Superconductors II, 
April 5-9, 1988, Reno, NY. 
Tsang, K.-L., Zhang, C. H., Callcott, T. A., Canfield, L. R., 
Ederer, D. L., Blendell, J. E., and Clark, C. W., Drexel High- 
Tc Conference Proceedings (July 1987). 
Ederer, D. L., Canfield, L. R., Callcott, T. A., Tsang, K.-L., 
Zhang, C. H., Arakawa, E. T., SPIE, 911, X-Ray and VUV 
Interaction Data Bases, Calculations and Measurements, p. 75 
(1988). 
Tsang, K.-L., Zhang, C. H., Callcott, T. A., Canfield, L. R., 
Ederer, D. L., Blendell, J. E., Clark, C. W., Wassdahl, N., 
Rubensson, J. E., Bray, G., Mortensson, N., Nordgren, J., 
Nyholm, R., and Cramm, S., J. Phys., CoUoque C9 supple- 
ment au n°12, 48 (December 1987). 
Peterson, R. L., submitted to Phys. Rev. B. 
177 

Volume 94, Number 3, May-June 1989 
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Katayama-Yoshida, H., Hirooka, T., Oyamada, A., Okabe, Y., 
Takahashi, T., Sasaki, T., Ochiai, A., Suzuki, T., Mascaren- 
has, A. J., Pankove, J. I., Ciszek, T. R, Deb, S. K., Goldfarb, 
R. B., and Li, Y., Physica C 156, 481 (198S). 
Chen, D.-X., and Goldfarb, R. B., submitted to the Proceedings 
of the March 1989 Meeting of the American Physical Society. 
Peterson, R. L., and Ekin, J. W., Physica C (1989). 
Casella, R. C, Solid State Communications (in press) 1989. 
De Reggi, A. S., Chiang, C. K., Swartzendruber, L. J., and 
Davis, G. T., High-71: Superconductors: Magnetic Interac- 
tions (World Scientific Publishing Co., Teaneck, 
N. J. 1989). 
Swartzendruber, L. J., Bennett, L. H., and Gallo, C. F., High-?; 
Superconductors: Magnetic Interactions (World Scientific 
Publishing C, Teaneck, N. J. 1989). 
Rubinstein, M., Swartzendruber, L. J., Bennett, L. H., Chaki, T. 
K., Harford, M. Z., Wolf, S. A., and Edelstein, A. E., High-r^ 
Superconductors: Magnetic Interactions (World Scientific 
Publishing Co., Teaneck, N. J. 1989). 
Wu, M. K., Shall, R. D., Swartzendruber, L. J., Chiang, C. K., 
Peters, P. N., and Huang, C. Y., High-rc Superconduc- 
tors: Magnetic Interactions (World Scientific Publishing Co., 
Teaneck, N. J. 1989). 
Kaiser, D. L., Gayle, F. W., Roth, R. S., and Swartzendruber, 
L. J., J. Materials Res., submitted 1989. 
Swartzendruber, L. J., and Bennett, L. H., J. Phys., in press 
1988. 
Swartzendruber, L. J., and Bennett, L. H., J. Superconductiv- 
ity, in press 1988. 
Wong-Ng, W., Cook, L. P., Chiang, C. K., Swartzendruber, L. 
J., and Bennett, L. H., Mater. Res. Soc, in press 1989. 
178 