Certain commercial entities, equipment, or materials may be identified in this document in order to describe an 
experimental procedure or concept adequately. Such identification  is not intended to imply recommendation or 
endorsement by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, nor is it intended to imply that the entities, 
materials, or equipment are necessarily the best available for the purpose. 
THERMAL PROPERTY MEASUREMENT METHODS AND ANALYSIS FOR ADDITIVE 
MANUFACTURING SOLIDS AND POWDERS 
J. Whiting 1, B. Lane 1, K. Chou 2, B. Cheng 2
1Engineering Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Gaithersburg, MD 20899 
2Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Louisville 
Louisville, KY 40292  
Abstract 
Thermal properties of additive manufacturing (AM) solids and precursor materials are im portant 
factors for build process and part performance.  However, measured thermal properties are not 
well documented, despite being used extensively in AM modeling and simulation.  The National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the University of Louisville are developing the 
measurement science for AM material thermal properties.  New measurement methods, sample 
preparation techniques, and results  are demonstrated for laser flash (LF) thermal diffusivity 
measurements on metal AM solids and powders.  Due to the complexity of these materials, new 
sample fabrication methods are developed and demonstrated.  Results from LF measurements are 
presented and compared.   
Keywords: laser powder bed fusion; thermal properties; thermal diffusivity; thermal conductivity 
1 Introduction 
As additive manufacturing (AM) gains popularity and becomes widely used , so does the demand 
for accurate and reliable AM processes.  Of the many factors that play a role in the quality of AM 
parts, the thermal properties of the material arguably play one of the most important roles.  These 
properties dictate the rate of solidification, amongst other things, which in turn controls the phase 
composition and therefore the mechanical properties.  While there is, for the most part, sufficient 
published empirical data on the thermal properties of the common materials used in AM, there is 
very little in regards to the thermal properties of these materials in a powder form and even less in 
terms of sintered or melted states.  There is a need for accurate AM thermal property data.   
The laser flash technique, developed and first used by Parker et al. in 1961  [1], allows the direct 
measurement of thermal diffusivity, 𝛼.  The technique consists of a pulsed thermal energy source 
(i.e., laser or flashlamp)  which heats one side of the sample being analyz ed.  The heat conducts 
through the specimen and is detected by a pyrometer on the opposite side.  This signal vs. time 
Solid Freeform Fabrication 2017: Proceedings of the 28th Annual International 
29
Solid Freeform Fabrication Symposium – An Additive Manufacturing Conference

result is called a thermogram.  Based on a solution to the Fourier heat equation assuming semi -
infinite boundary conditions , t he thermogr am of this heat is used along with the specimen’s 
thickness to obtain the thermal diffusivity of t he material. This relationship, derived by Parker in 
[1], is 
𝛼 = 1.37𝐿2
π2𝑡1
2
, (1) 
where  𝐿 is the sample thickness and t1/2 is the time from the laser pulse to half-maximum of the 
thermogram.  Note that derivation of diffusivity from Equation 1 depends on the relative amplitude 
of the thermogram to determine t1/2, and not absolute temperature.  A schematic of the process is 
shown in Figure 1.  For this relationship to hold true, there are several assumptions that need to be 
made.  The derivation of Parker’s diffusivity calculation assumes the heat to be instantaneously 
and uniformly absorbed by a thin portion of the sample, the sample to be homogeneous and 
isotropic, and the heat transfer in the radial direction to be negligible.  Testing thermally conductive 
materials at optimal thicknesses will allow the original Parker solution to be used with minimal 
error assuming the conditions of the test are similar to the assumptions made, but this is often not 
the case.  Since Parker’s work was published there have been quite a few pieces of work aimed to 
improve on the originally proposed solution by accounting for these assumptions.  The heat losses 
are considered in [2] and [3], while the finite heat p ulse is accounted for in [2, 3 -5], and the lack 
of uniform of heating in [2,3, 6].  Some of these can be avoided with appropriate experi mental 
apparatus and conditions , including the use of a high -quality fiber l aser to avoid nonuniform 
heating and integration of the measured temperature over the sample’s surface.  
Figure 1: Schematic of the laser flash technique 
The work detailed here focuses on measuring the thermal properties of solid and powder AM 
materials.  While the powders evaluated here are comprised of particles with a distribution of sizes 
optimal for laser powder bed fusion (LPBF), there is no reason these methods could not be applied 
to powders optimized for other AM processes.  
(s)Time (s)
30

 
 
2 Experimental Procedure 
The wor k shown here uses a commercially availab le laser flash system that features  an 
environment module capable of heating samples to 1600 °C, a six-sample carousel that holds 12.5 
mm cylindrical samples, an Nd:glass laser, and a InSb pyrometer (shown in Figure 2).  The 
manufacturer claims the device provides thermal diffusivity measurements accurate to ± 2.3 % 
with a repeatability of ± 2 %.  Prior to testing, each sample is coated with a thin layer of graphite 
as described in ISO 22007-4:2017 [7] to optimize laser energy absorption on the top surface, and 
emission towards the pyrometer on the bottom surface .  Each test consists of a series of ‘test 
segments’ in which the samples are raised to specific setpoint temperatures within the environment 
chamber.  During each segment the samples undergo three ‘shots’ with ample time in between for 
the sample to cool to the current segment setpoint temperature.   
  
Figure 2:  Schematic of the laser flash system 
2.1 Solid AM and Wrought  
Solid AM samples were built in a commercial laser powder bed fusion system  using nickel alloy 
625 and 17 -4 stainless steel  powder using the original equipment manufacturer’s  suggested 
settings.  In order to ensure geometric accuracy, the samples were taken from a 25 mm tall cylinder 
with a 12.5  mm diameter using an electric al discharge machining (EDM) operation.  Wrought 
nickel alloy 625 and 17-4 stainless steel were procured in 12.5 mm rods and were machined using 
EDM in a similar fashion.  The nickel alloy was heat treated at 1010 °C for an unspecified duration 
then water cooled and the 17-4 stainless steel was heat treated at ≈ 482 °C for 1 hr then air cooled.  
Both groups (AM and wrought) were sliced into similar thicknesses (≈ 1.6 mm).   
2.2 AM Powder Capsules 
The laser flash technique requires two sides of the sample to be accessible, and, as is the case for 
the system used at the Natio nal Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST), the cylindrical 
31

 
 
sample’s flat surfaces are horizontally oriented.  This prevents loose powder from being tested 
without some sort of container. 
In order to imitate the conditions in which the powder is used, additively manufactured capsules 
were fabricated with loose powder trapped inside.  This allows a volume of powder to be extracted 
that has the same density as in the LPBF machine and for the powder sample to be taken with the 
environmental gas used in the process (nitrogen in this case).  The thermal conductivity of the gas 
has been shown to have a significant impact on the effective conductivity in [8 ].  The as-built 
configuration is shown in Figure 3.  The samples are built in groups of five and subsequently 
machined to size and removed from the others with an EDM operation.  The powder was removed 
from one sample by means of a small ( ≈ 0.5 mm) hole to differentiate the powder’s contribution 
to the thermogram’s shape and calculated diffusivity from the solid capsule shell.  While there will 
be a portion of overhanging solid geom etry in the samples, they are oriented so that this region’s 
size is minimized and in a location in which it should not significantly alter the heat transfer.    
 
Figure 3: Cross-sectional view of model of five-sample group 
 
2.3 Copper and Yttria Stabilized Zirconia 
A powder container was fabricated using a top and bottom with high thermal conductivities, and 
a thermally insulating surrounding tube to ensure a substantial portion of the laser’s thermal energy 
passes through the powder.  Figure 4 shows a cross section of the powder capsule design  and the 
actual assembled capsule can be seen in Figure 5.  Copper was chosen for the top and bottom, and 
yttria stabilized zirconia (YSZ or Zr) for the tube.  The powder and holder materials wil l be 
subjected to temperatures up to  400 °C and will m ove with respect to one another due to th eir 
different thermal expansion coefficients.  Therefore the lid is fabricated with a  diameter slightly 
less than that of the tube ’s inner diameter so that it can move freely in the vertical direction to 
ensure it remains in contact with the powder throughout the test.  The bottom is p ress-fit into the 
ceramic tube, then powder is poured in and the excess is scraped away with a razor blade and the 
lid is gently placed on the powder.   
32

 
 
 
  
Figure 4: Cross-sectional view of computer-
aided design model of Copper and YSZ powder 
container 
Figure 5: Powder filled copper and YSZ 
powder capsule 
 
3 Results and Discussion 
All thermal diffusivities reported are calculated using the Parker model  and each of the reported 
values for diffusivity is an average of three ‘shots’ of the laser flash system.  As previously 
mentioned there are some assumptions made in Parker’s derivation that may not be appropriate, 
therefore the resu lts reported here should serve as comparisons to one another and are not 
necessarily absolute values.  This is especially true for the more complex powder capsules.  Finite 
element modeling will help extract the effective thermal properties of the powder f rom the 
aggregate (i.e., what is empirically measured).  If error bars are present, they are the range of values 
over the three ‘shots’.     
3.1 Solid AM and Wrought 
Results from the laser flash testing of nickel alloy 625 and 17-4 stainless steel are shown in Figure 
6.  The calculated thermal diffusivity of the wrought nickel alloy  625 samples and the AM 
counterparts are very similar with a maximum percent difference of 1.5 % at 600 °C.  Conversely, 
the wrought and AM stainless steel specimens are quite different from one another.  The wrought 
samples show a nonlinear trend especially at temperatures over 200 °C while the AM samples are 
linear.  The wrought 17-4 stainless steel purchased was H900 conditioned.  Since the laser flash 
system holds all the samples at elevated temperatures that are near this H900 heat treatment (i.e., 
483 °C ) for often over several hours, this material is likely undergoing phase transformations that 
are altering the thermal properties of the wrought material.  As shown in [9], the nitrogen gas used 
during the atomization process of this 17-4 stainless steel powder seems to play a role in retaining 
the austenitic phase during heat treatment.  This may explain the discrepancy between the two 
materials’ measured thermal diffusivities.  
33

 
 
 
Figure 6: Thermal diffusivities of solid AM and wrought 17-4 stainless steel and nickel alloy 
625.  Diffusivity is calculated using the Parker model. 
3.2 AM Powder Capsules 
The results from the laser flash testing of both full and empty 17 -4 stainless steel AM powder 
capsules are shown in Figure 7.  Each sample was tested at 100 °C intervals f rom 100 °C to 400 
°C, and again at 100 °C to test for the presence of hysteresis.  This entire process was repeated 
upon the first test’s completion.  While the thermal diffusivities of the hollow sample are repeatable 
and linear with respect to temperature, the powder filled specimens showed substantial deviation 
from one another, were not linear with temperature, and showed hysteresis in regards to the 
measured thermal diffusivities.  This indicates some sort of change in the powder likely either due 
to a density change in the powder caused by settling or a phase transformation as seen in the solid 
wrought materials.  The entire test process was conducted a total of three times with only the initial 
results showing the presence of hysteresis.  Additionally, the large range in the diffusivity of the 
shots seen in Test  #1 Capsule #1’s first segment (conducted at 100 °C) are not seen elsewhere 
indicating the sample was changing in between shots.  The results from the second test are shown 
in Figure 8, and show that whatever was causing the variability is not a fact or after the initial test 
segment.  The x-ray computed tomography image in Figure 9 shows settling near the top corners 
of the powder container which may be the cause of the deviation.  The powder undergoes thermal 
expansion and contraction during testing which causes the powder to settle.  Also, the thickness of 
the side walls of the sample is  also variable ranging from ≈ .861 mm to ≈ .342 mm.  This is 
attributed to a combination of errors incurred during the EDM operation and the portion of the 
sample that is built as an ov er-hanging structure.  Since the temperature of the bottom surface is 
integrated by the pyrometer, this will likely not significantly alter the measurement, but more work 
is needed to confirm this. 
(°C) Temperature (°C) 
34

 
 
  
Figure 7: Thermal diffusivities of powder-filled AM capsules compared to the emptied, hollow 
capsule 
  
Figure 8: Repeat of test conducted in Figure 7 comparing powder-filled AM capsules to the 
emptied, hollow capsule. 
Last shots conducted at 100 °C to 
evaluate hysteresis  
17-4 AM Capsule #1 Test #1 
17-4 AM Capsule #2 Test #1 
17-4 AM Empty Capsule Test #1 
Last shots conducted at 100  °C to 
evaluate hysteresis  
17-4 AM Capsule #1 Test #2 
17-4 AM Capsule #2 Test #2 
17-4 AM Empty Capsule Test #2 
Temperature (°C) 
(°C) Temperature (°C) 
35

 
 
 
Figure 9: XCT image of 17-4 stainless steel AM capsule showing asymmetry and powder 
settling 
3.3 Copper and Yttria Stabilized Zirconia 
Calculated thermal diffusivities from the Cu and YSZ sample holders are shown in Figure 10.  The 
hysteresis previously seen in the AM capsul es is not present indicating the copper lid is 
maintaining contact with the powder throughout the tests .  While this apparatus seems to be the 
most promising given the aforementioned constraints, more work needs to be done to extract the 
powder’s effective thermal properties before they can be evaluated.  This will involve comparison 
with theoretical powder bed heat transfer as well as finite element method modeling.              
 
Figure 10: Thermal diffusivities of 17-4 stainless steel powder filled Cu-Zr capsules.  Parker 
model is used to extract diffusivity values from thermograms. 
Cu-YSZ Capsule, 17-4 powder, #1 
Cu-YSZ Capsule, 17-4 powder, #2 
Cu-YSZ Capsule, 17-4 powder, #3 
(°C) Temperature (°C) 
36

 
 
4 Conclusions 
The thermal diffusivities of LPBF solid nickel alloy 625 and 17-4 stainless steel have been tested 
using the laser flash technique.  While the AM nickel alloy specimens proved to have very similar 
thermal diffusivities (within 1.5 % of their wrought counterparts ), the stainless steel specim ens 
showed a nonlinear relationship between temperature and thermal properties  compared to the 
linear nature of the AM samples  which is likely due to phase transformation .  To evaluate the 
thermal properties of precursor AM materials, work has been done to design and fabricate various 
sample holders.  While the additively manufactured powder capsules allow the powder to be 
captured in a state similar to its use in the LPBF process, several drawbacks were identified 
including inconsistent contact between powder and solid phase and the observed asymmetry of the 
capsules.  A copper and yttria stabilized zirconia holder was employed and has shown to provide 
repeatable results.  Comparisons to modeling and theoretical thermal properties will be conducted 
in the future.   
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to thank Felix Kim, NIST, for providing the x-ray computed tomography 
imaging and his expertise.  
  
37

 
 
References 
[1] Parker, W. J., R. J. Jenkins, C. P. Butler, and G. L. Abbott. “Flash Method of Determining 
Thermal Diffusivity, Heat Capacity, and Thermal Conductivity.” Journal of Applied Physics  
32, no. 9 (September 1, 1961): 1679–84. doi:10.1063/1.1728417. 
[2] Watt, D. A. “Theory of Thermal Diffusivity by Pulse Technique.” British Journal of Applied 
Physics 17, no. 2 (1966): 231. 
[3] Clark III, L. M., and R. E. Taylor. “Radiation Loss in the Flash Method for Thermal 
Diffusivity.” Journal of Applied Physics  46, no. 2 (February 1 975): 714 –19. 
doi:10.1063/1.321635. 
[4] Cape, J. A., and G. W. Lehman. “Temperature and Finite Pulse ‐Time Effects in the Flash 
Method for Measuring Thermal Diffusivity.” Journal of Applied Physics 34, no. 7 (July 1963): 
1909–13. doi:10.1063/1.1729711. 
[5] Larson, KB, and Karl Koyama. “Correction for Finite ‐Pulse‐Time Effects in Very Thin 
Samples Using the Flash Method of Measuring Thermal Diffusivity.” Journal of Applied 
Physics 38, no. 2 (1967): 465–74. 
[6] Baba, T., M. Kobayashi, A. Ono, J.H. Hong, and M.M. Suliyanti. “Experimental Investigation 
of the Nonuniform Heating Effect in Laser Flash Thermal Diffusivity Measurements.” 
Thermochimica Acta 218 (May 1993): 329–39. doi:10.1016/0040-6031(93)80433-B. 
[7] ISO 22007 -4: Plastics -- Determination of thermal conductivity and thermal diffusivity -- 
Part 4: Laser Flash Method, 2017-06, International Organization for Standardization, Geneva, 
Switzerland.  
[8] Deissler, RG, and CS Eian. “Investigation of Effective Ther mal Conductivities of Powders.” 
Lewis Flight Propulsion Lab., NACA, 1952. 
[9] Cheruvathur, Sudha, Eric A. Lass, and Carelyn E. Campbell. “Additive Manufacturing of 17 -
4 PH Stainless Steel: Post -Processing Heat Treatment to Achieve Uniform Reproducible 
Microstructure.” JOM 68, no. 3 (March 2016): 930–42. doi:10.1007/s11837-015-1754-4. 
 
38