nature materials
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-023-01726-7
Feature
Thermoelectric measurements
Joseph Heremans and Joshua Martin discuss the reproducibility of thermoelectric measurements 
and conclude that the uncertainty on the figure of merit zT is of the order of 15–20%.
T
hermoelectric (TE) technology con-
verts heat into electrical power in 
thermoelectric generators (TEGs) 
and uses electrical energy to pump 
heat in thermoelectric coolers 
(TECs)1. For a given temperature difference 
and load, the efficiency of TEGs and TECs is a 
function of the Carnot efficiency and the ther-
moelectric figure of merit zT = S2T/ρκ, where 
S is the Seebeck coefficient, ρ is the electrical 
resistivity, T is the absolute temperature and κ 
is the total thermal conductivity. zT measures 
the amount of thermodynamic irreversible 
losses in the conversion process. There are two 
ways to measure zT: (1) calculate it from meas-
urements of S, ρ and κ (ref. 1), or (2) measure 
it directly. Because the power output of TEGs 
and TECs scales with material volume, we con-
centrate on measurements of bulk samples.
The resistivity ρ  is measured using four 
contacts placed on a sample as shown in  
Fig. 1a. The resistivity ρ  = (V /I)(A/lo), where  
V = V+ − V− is the averaged bipolar voltage, I is 
the averaged ± current through the sample, 
and A and l o are the average cross-sectional 
area of the sample and the distance between 
the centres of the two voltage contacts, 
respectively. In principle, ρ is defined in an 
isothermal environment, but often the sam -
ple is mounted on a heat sink (Fig. 1a). Both 
Joule heating and Peltier heating or cool -
ing can affect results. Joule heating can be 
avoided by using small currents and bipolar 
measurements. Peltier cooling creates a tem-
perature difference across a sample (Fig. 1a), 
which generates a Seebeck voltage that adds 
to V. The time-dependent voltage is shown 
in Fig. 1b: the voltage immediately after the 
current is applied is V(t) = V0, but after a time 
τ the voltage reading is V (t ≫ τ) = V 0(1 + zT). 
Typically, τ = l2/D (≈1 s), where D  = κ/C is the 
thermal diffusivity, C is the isobaric volumet-
ric specific heat and l is the length of the sam-
ple. Although noise and temperature errors 
affect ρ, the largest uncertainty arises from 
measuring A and l 0. A is measured to within 
≈0.5–1.0%. l0 is measured between the centre 
of the voltage contacts with an uncertainty 
dominated by the ratio of contact diameter to 
l0, often quite large (≥10%) on small samples.
The Seebeck coefficient is also commonly 
measured using the mount2 shown in Fig. 1a. 
A heat flux Q is applied to the sample to gen -
erate a small ΔT  = TH − TC (≪T), where TH and 
TC are the hot and cold thermocouple tem -
perature, respectively. S is given by S = V/ΔT, 
where V is the Seebeck voltage. Although S is 
insensitive to geometrical errors, there are 
three sources of uncertainty: uncertainty on 
V and ΔT , and the voltage and temperature 
must be measured at the same time and loca-
tion on the sample. Because Seebeck voltages 
are small, residual voltages that appear when  
ΔT = 0 must be subtracted. A collection of sta-
bilized electric potential/temperature differ-
ence data points {(V, ΔT)} are measured under 
steady-state conditions and with increasing 
values of Q ; S is calculated as the slope of 
the unconstrained linear fit to the data. The 
measurement of ΔT requires that probes and 
sample surface are in good thermal contact. 
The thermal contact resistance between sam-
ple and probes is inversely proportional to 
interface thermal conductance and square of 
contact radius. The probes also perturb the 
 Check for updates
Heat sink
Resistance heater Resistance heater
IH IH
V + TH
Q
A
I−
I
w
V −
lO
TC
I+
t
V(t)
t
I
V 0
V 0 (1 + zT)
/uni03C4
V +V −
T1
T2
n p
Heat sink
a b c
Fig. 1 | Thermoelectric measurements. a, Mount for measurements of 
resistivity ρ, Seebeck coefficient S and static heater-and-sink measurements of 
the thermal conductivity κ. A is the average cross-sectional area, l is the length 
of the sample and w is its thickness, lo is the distance between the centres of 
the two voltage contacts. b, Time dependence of the measured d.c. voltage V(t) 
(top) following a current (I) pulse (bottom). This can perturb electrical resistivity 
measurements or be used in the Harman method to directly determine zT.  
c, Thermocouple mount to directly determine the zT of an unknown material 
(the n- or the p-leg of the thermocouple). The unknown material is paired with a 
complementary material (the p- or the n-leg, respectively) of known zT.

nature materials
Feature
surface temperature, creating errors up to 
≈14% in S  at 900 K; this is reduced by using 
small-diameter and low-thermal-conductivity 
probes, radiation shielding and measuring 
under vacuum. Experiment and modelling 
both demonstrate that these errors are asym-
metric and dependent on contact relative 
locations3. A time delay in measuring V, TH and 
TC distorts V/ΔT, introducing an error that can 
exceed 10% but is minimal in steady state. If the 
measurement locations of V, TH and TC are not 
identical, for example, when using differential 
thermocouples, the uncertainty in S  can be 
similar to their displacement percent3.
Common techniques to measure thermal 
properties include longitudinal steady-state 
(measuring κ), laser flash (D ), transient 
plane source (κ , D, C), or differential scan -
ning calorimetry (which measures C )2,4. 
At T ≤ 300 K, κ  is typically measured using 
static heater-and-sink techniques (Fig. 1a):  
κ = (Q /ΔT)(lo/A), where Q  is the power pro -
duced by a resistive heater. The measurement 
proceeds like that for S , with κ derived from 
the slope of a linear regression through a series 
of {(Q, ΔT)} points taken after ΔT  stabilizes, 
that is, at a time longer than τ (some commer-
cial instruments use a transient method). The 
geometry uncertainty is the same as for ρ. The 
sources of uncertainty on ΔT are the same as 
for S. The main error source is due to thermal 
losses where the heat does not go fully through 
the sample. Thermal radiation loss is negli -
gible at T <150 K. At T  > 200 K, it scales as T 4 
following the Stefan–Boltzmann law.
At T ≥ 300 K, D is measured using laser flash 
analysis. With a reference specimen, C  and 
thus κ = DC can be calculated. C  can also be 
measured using differential scanning calo -
rimetry, or estimated from the Dulong–Petit 
law, which must always be checked for con -
sistency. Uncertainty in D  is relatively small 
and reported directly and reliably using com-
mercial instrumentation. The uncertainty in C 
can be larger in samples of high atomic number 
(most TE materials), or near phase transitions, 
where laser flash and differential scanning cal-
orimetry techniques greatly underestimate D 
and C if enthalpy changes in the phase transi-
tion are ignored. The latter results in underes-
timations of κ and overestimations of zT.
zT and its uncertainty can be calculated 
from ρ, S and κ , noting that geometrical 
uncertainties cancel out if κ is obtained from 
the static heater-and-sink method and the 
thermometers are located at the same point 
as the voltage contacts. A reasonableness 
check is to verify that zT <S2/L0, assuming that  
the Wiedemann–Franz relation holds with  
L0 = 2.4 × 10–8 V2 K–2 (or a justification is given 
if this does not hold). Adding a direct meas -
urement of zT makes for a more convincing 
argument if consistent with measurements 
of zT from materials properties within ≈20%. 
There are three methods.
One is the Harman method (Fig. 1b). A cur-
rent pulse is applied to a sample mounted 
either in free space or on a heat sink, and volt-
age is recorded over a time longer than several 
τ. The immediate voltage response is V 0, the 
steady-state (t ≫ τ) one is V0(1 + zT), and zT is 
derived from these equations. The uncertainty 
is of the order of 20%, and larger for zT ≪ 1, 
given the difficulty in identifying the inflection 
point of the V(t) curve near t = 0.
The two alternative methods require the 
construction of a thermocouple made from 
the material under study (n- or p-type) and 
a complementary similar material (now 
p- or n-type) of known zT but opposite 
polarity (Fig. 1c). The thermocouple is instru-
mented with thermometers on its two ends  
(T1 and T 2) and is mounted in vacuum with 
one end attached to a heat sink, and the other 
with a resistive heater.
One of these alternative methods, appropri-
ate for TEC materials (T1 <T2), is to determine 
the maximum temperature difference ΔTMAX of 
the thermocouple used in the Peltier cooling 
mode. The current is varied while ΔT = T
2 − T1 
is measured, until ΔTMAX is reached. The equa-
tion ΔTMAX = (zTAVG) (T1/2) is then used to deter-
mine zTAVG, which is the average between the zT 
of both n- and p-type materials, from which the 
unknown zT of the material is derived.
The other alternative method is to run the 
thermocouple as a TEG (T 1 > T 2), putting a 
known amount of Joule heat Q into the heater 
and connecting the thermocouple to an elec-
trical load of resistance R (not shown), across 
which the voltage V
OUT = V+ − V− is measured. 
The TEG’s thermal efficiency η = VOUT
2/RQ and 
Carnot efficiency ηC = 1 – (T2 / T1) are measured; 
η/ηC is a function of R , T1, T2 and zTAVG that is 
solved for zTAVG (ref. 1). Heat losses and electri-
cal and thermal contact resistance losses are 
included in the measurements of zT in the last 
two methods and result in an underestima -
tion of zT.
Several interlaboratory studies have iden-
tified variability in TE measurements 5. For 
example, the National Institute of Standards 
and T echnology (NIST) led a comparison of 
12 international laboratories for the measure-
ment of S  between 2 K and 390 K for n-type 
Bi2Te3 with an interlaboratory coefficient 
of variation (standard deviation divided by 
consensus mean) of ≈±4%. Another study in 
2015, by Institut de Chimie et des Matériaux 
Paris-Est compared the TE figure of merit for 
the skutterudite Co
0.97Ni0.03Sb3 from 300 K to 
700 K. The temperature-averaged relative 
standard uncertainties (at confidence level 
68%) were 6%, 8%, 11% and 19% for S , ρ, κ and 
zT, respectively.
A limited number of certified reference 
material standards are commercially avail -
able for TE transport properties 5. Standard 
reference material (SRM) 3451 (n-type Bi2Te3) 
and SRM 3452 (p-type Si 80Ge20) provide ref-
erence values for S  and ρ that together span 
the temperature range from 10 K to 900 K. 
Reference material (RM) 8420 (electrolytic 
iron) provides ρ and κ values between 2 K and 
1,000 K. A reference material is available from 
the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) 2I09 
(Inconel 600) for κ in the range of 14 W m−1 K−1 
to 22 W m−1 K−1 covering temperatures between 
100 °C and 500 °C.
Researchers are advised to conduct meas-
urements and express uncertainty according 
to the procedures and terminology definitions 
contained in the Guide to the Expression of 
Uncertainty in Measurement (GUM) and 
NIST T echnical Note 1900
5. Error is a meas -
ured quantity value minus a reference quan-
tity value, whereas uncertainty characterizes 
the dispersion of the quantity values being 
attributed to a measurand. Any measurement 
is technically incomplete if researchers fail 
to provide either a statement of the meas -
urement uncertainty or uncertainty bars for 
measured quantities, preventing reproduc -
ibility of their results.
Joseph P . Heremans    1  & 
Joshua Martin    2
1Department of Mechanical and Aerospace 
Engineering, Department of Materials Science 
and Engineering and Department of Physics, 
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. 
2Material Measurement Laboratory, National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, 
Gaithersburg, MD, USA.  
 e-mail: heremans.1@osu.edu
Published online: xx xx xxxx
References
1. Heikes, R. R. & Ure, R. W. Thermoelectricity: Science and 
Engineering (Interscience Publishers, 1961).
2. Tritt, T. M. & Browning, V. Semicond. Semimetals 69,  
25–50 (2001).
3. Martin, J. Meas. Sci. Technol. 24, 085601 (2013).
4. Zhao, D., Qian, X., Gu, X., Jajja, S. A. & Yang, R. J. Electron. 
Packag. 138, 040802 (2016).
5. Martin, J. et al. J. Mater. Res. 36, 3339–3352 (2021).
Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
